# Module 2: Microsoft Azure management tools
# Lab: Using Microsoft Azure management tools
  
### Scenario
  
To prepare for the deployment of Azure services, you want to become familiar with the primary Azure management tools. Most of your on-premises administrative tasks are automated by means of Windows PowerShell scripts and Linux shell scripts. You have decided to test the use of Azure PowerShell and the Azure CLI.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Install the Azure PowerShell modules and the Azure CLI.
-   Use Azure PowerShell and the Azure CLI to connect to your Azure subscription.
-   Run Azure PowerShell cmdlets and Azure CLI commands against your Azure subscriptions.
> **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab Setup
  
Estimated Time: **30 minutes**

Virtual machine: **10979D-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Admin**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start **Hyper-V Manager**.
2.   In Hyper-V Manager, click **10979D-MIA-CL1**, and then in the Actions pane, click **Start**.
3.   In the Actions pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts. 
4.   Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  -   User name: **Admin**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

5.   You also need to start **MSL-TMG1** for Internet access.


## Exercise 1: Using the Azure PowerShell modules
  
### Scenario
  
In this exercise, you will use the Azure PowerShell modules.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Install the Azure PowerShell modules
2.   Connect to your Azure subscription
3.   Use Azure PowerShell cmdlets


#### Task 1: Install the Azure PowerShell modules
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, and then browse to [https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/downloads/](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/downloads/). 
2.   Download **WindowsAzurePowerShellGet.3f.3f.3fnew.exe** and start Web Platform Installer.
3.   In the **Web Platform Installer 5.0** window, note the **Install** button but do not click on it. Instead, click **Exit** to close the **Web Platform Installer 5.0** window. 

> **Note:** Azure PowerShell is already preinstalled on the lab VM.


#### Task 2: Connect to your Azure subscription
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start the Windows PowerShell ISE as an administrator.
2.   In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, list all the available Azure PowerShell modules by running the following cmdlet:
  ```
  Get-Module -ListAvailable -Name Azure*
  ```

    > **Note:** The output contains a list of a number of AzureRM.* modules, the Azure PowerShell module, and the Azure.Storage module.

3.   Sign in to your Azure subscription with the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription by running the following Azure PowerShell cmdlet: 

```
Add-AzureRmAccount
```
> **Note:** The cmdlet returns the list of subscriptions associated with your Microsoft account.


#### Task 3: Use Azure PowerShell cmdlets
  
1.   Back in the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, in the console pane, retrieve the list of subscriptions associated with your Microsoft account by running the following cmdlet:
  ```
  Get-AzureRmSubscription
  ```
2.   Select the target Azure subscription by running the following cmdlet, replacing _&lt;Value of the SubscriptionId property&gt;_ with the value of the **Subscription Id** property returned by the **Get-AzureRmSubscription** cmdlet:
  ```
  Select-AzureRmSubscription -SubscriptionId <Value of the SubscriptionId property>
  ```

    > **Note:** If you had multiple subscriptions, you would use the preceding cmdlet to specify the Azure subscription you want to work with in the current PowerShell session.

3.   Retrieve the types of Azure Resource Manager resources you can create in your subscription by running the following cmdlet:
  ```
  Get-AzureRmResourceProvider
  ```

    > **Note:** The cmdlet lists each Azure Resource Provider, its registration state (the provider must be registered before you can use it), and the list of resource types you can create by referencing it.

4.   Identify the list of resources that are implemented by the Microsoft.Compute Azure Resource Manager resource provider (which includes Azure Virtual Machines) by running the following cmdlet:
  ```
  Get-AzureRmResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute
  ```
5.   Identify the list of resources that are implemented by the Microsoft.Compute Azure Resource Manager resource provider in the East US Azure region by running the following cmdlet:
  ```
  Get-AzureRmResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute -Location 'East US'
  ```
6.   Close the Windows PowerShell ISE.
7.   Leave Microsoft Edge open.

> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have successfully used the Azure PowerShell modules.


## Exercise 2: Using the Azure CLI
  
### Scenario
  
In this exercise, you will install and use the Azure CLI. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Install the Azure CLI
2.   Connect to your Azure subscription by using the Azure CLI
3.   Manage your Azure subscription by using the Azure CLI
4.   Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Install the Azure CLI
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in Microsoft Edge, browse to [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli) and, in the **Windows** section, note the **msi** link. 
2.   Do not initiate the installation. Instead, close Microsoft Edge.
> **Note:** Azure CLI is already preinstalled on the lab VM.


#### Task 2: Connect to your Azure subscription by using the Azure CLI
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start the command prompt as an administrator.
2.   In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command:
  ```
  az
  ```
    > **Note:** A summary of the most-common Azure CLI commands displays.

3.   At the command prompt, run the following command:
  ```
  az login
  ```

    > **Note:** At this point, you will be presented with a message stating **To sign-in, use a web browser to open the page https://aka.ms/devicelogin. Enter the code _XXXXXXXXX_ to authenticate**, where **_XXXXXXXXX_** is a random string of characters.

4.   On MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge and browse to **https://aka.ms/devicelogin**. 
5.   On the **Device Login** page, type the code included in the message displayed in step 3.
6.   Once you type in the code, you will be presnted with another page identifying the Microsoft Azure CLI as the application that you are attempting to sign it to. Click **Continue**. You will be automatically redirected to the **Microsoft Azure** sign-in page.
7.   Sign in with the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription. 
    > **Note:** At this point, you will be presented with the **Windows Azure Cross-platform Command Line Interface** page, stating **You have signed in to the Windows Azure Cross-platform Command Line Interface on your device. You may now close the window**.

8.   Close the **Microsoft Edge** window as instructed.
9.   Back in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, note the JSON-formatted output displaying information about the current session, including the ID of the subscription that your account is associated with. 
10.   In case of an error, repeat the steps 3 through 9.

#### Task 3: Manage your Azure subscription by using the Azure CLI
  
1.   List your subscriptions by running the following command:
  ```
  az account list
  ```
2.   Copy the value of the **id** property displayed in the output of the preceding command.
3.   Run the following command, pasting the copied entry after the  _--subscription_ parameter:
  ```
  az account set --subscription <value of the subscription id property>
  ```

    > **Note:** If you had multiple subscriptions, you would use the preceding command to specify the Azure subscription you want to work with in the current Azure CLI session.

5.   To retrieve the types of Azure Resource Manager providers available in your subscription, run the following command:
  ```
  az provider list
  ```

    > **Note:** The output of the command contains each Azure Resource Provider available in your subscription and its registration state (the provider must be registered before you can use it).

6.   To list all the Azure datacenters available in the current subscription, run the following command:
  ```
  az account list-locations
  ```
7.   To identify the list of resources that are implemented by the Microsoft.Compute provider (which includes Azure Virtual Machines) along with the list of locations where they are available, run the following command:
  ```
  az provider show --namespace Microsoft.Compute
  ```
8.   Close the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you have used the Azure CLI.



**Question** 
What should you do in order to use Azure CLI to manage classic resources?


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
