# Lab Answer Key:  Module 8: Creating and managing Azure AD
# Lab: Create and manage Azure Active Directory tenants
  
## Exercise 1: Create users in Azure AD
  
#### Task 1: Create Azure AD users in the Azure AD Default Directory of an Azure subscription
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, open Internet Explorer and go to https://manage.windowsazure.com.
2.   If you receive a prompt, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the service administrator or a co-administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   If you are presented with the  **Help us make your experience awesome** dialog box, click **Not now**.
4.   In the vertical navigation bar on the left side of the Azure classic portal page, click  **ACTIVE DIRECTORY**.
5.   On the  **active directory** page, click **Default Directory**.
6.   If you are presented with the  **Let's talk about Azure AD** dialog box, close it by clicking **x** in its upper right corner.
7.   Click  **USERS**.
8.   Click  **ADD USER**.
9.   In the  **Tell us about this user** dialog box, enter the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  -   TYPE OF USER:  **New user in your organization**

  -   USER NAME:  **deanna**


10.   In the  **user profile** dialog box, enter the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  -   FIRST NAME:  **Deanna**

  -   LAST NAME:  **Ball**

  -   DISPLAY NAME:  **Deanna Ball**

  -   ROLE:  **User**

  -   Enable Multi-Factor Authentication: Not selected


11.   Click  **create**.
12.   On the  **Get temporary password** page, write down the value displayed in the **NEW PASSWORD** text box.
13.   Click  **Complete**.
14.   Click  **ADD USER**.
15.   In the  **Tell us about this user** dialog box, enter the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  -   TYPE OF USER:  **New user in your organization**

  -   USER NAME:  **kari**


16.   In the  **user profile** dialog box, enter the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  -   FIRST NAME:  **Kari**

  -   LAST NAME:  **Tran**

  -   DISPLAY NAME:  **Kari Tran**

  -   ROLE:  **Global Admin**

  -   ALTERNATE EMAIL ADDRESS: Type the email address of your Microsoft account that is either the service administrator or a co-administrator of your Azure subscription.

  -   Enable Multi-Factor Authentication: Not selected


17.   Click  **create**.
18.   On the  **Get temporary password** page, note the value displayed in the **NEW PASSWORD** text box.
19.   Click  **Complete**.
20.   Leave the Internet Explorer window open. You will use it later in this lab.


#### Task 2: Assign the owner role to an Azure AD user
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, open Internet Explorer, and go to https://portal.azure.com.
2.   If you receive a prompt, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the service administrator or a co-administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   In the Azure portal interface, in the  **Hub** menu, click **Browse**.
4.   Scroll down the list of resources, and then click  **Subscriptions**.
5.   In the  **Subscriptions** blade, click your subscription.
6.   In the blade showing your subscription, click  **All settings**
7.   In the  **Settings** blade, click **Users**.
8.   In the  **Users** blade, click **Add**. This opens the  **Add access** blade and the **Select a role** blade.
9.   In the  **Select a role** blade, click **Owner**.
10.   In the  **Add users** blade, click **Deanna Ball,** and then click **Select**.
11.   In the  **Add access** blade, click **OK**.


#### Task 3: Sign in as new users to the Azure Portal
  
1.   In the Internet Explorer window, click the  **Settings** icon (cog wheel) in the upper-right corner.
2.   In the drop-down menu, click  **Safety**, and then click  **InPrivate Browsing**. This opens a new InPrivate browsing Internet Explorer window.
3.   In the InPrivate browsing Internet Explorer window, go to https://portal.azure.com
4.   If you receive a prompt, in the  **Email or phone** text box, enter the complete user name of the **deanna** Azure AD user account, including the suffix following the **@** symbol.
5.   In the  **Password** text box, enter the password you noted while creating the **deanna** user account and then click **Sign in**.
6.   You will be redirected to the  **Update your password** page. Enter the following details and then click **Update password and sign in**:

  -   Current password: The same password you just entered.

  -   New password:  **Pa$$w0rd**

  -   Confirm password:  **Pa$$w0rd**

7.   This redirects you to the Azure portal interface. 
8.   In the Azure portal interface, in the  **Hub** menu, click **Browse**.
9.   Scroll down the list of resources, and then click  **Subscriptions**.
10.   In the  **Subscriptions** blade, click your subscription.
11.   Note that you can view all details of the subscription, including  **Breakdown of current charges**.
12.   Click  **All settings**.
13.   In the  **Settings** blade, click **Users**.  Note that you have full access to the  **Users** blade.
14.   Click the  **user name** in the upper-right corner, and then click **Sign out** in the drop down menu.
15.   On the Microsoft Azure page, click  **Use another account**.
16.   When prompted to authenticate, in the Email or phone text box, enter the full user name of the  **kari** Azure AD user account, including the suffix following the **@** symbol.
17.   In the Password text box, enter the password you noted when creating the kari user account and then click  **Sign in**.
18.   You will be redirected to the Update your password page. Enter the following details and then click  **Update password and sign in**:

  -   Current password: The same password you just typed in

  -   New password:  **Pa$$w0rd**

  -   Confirm password:  **Pa$$w0rd.** This redirects you to the Azure portal interface.

19.   In the Azure portal interface, in the Hub menu, click  **Browse.**
20.   Scroll down the list of resources, and then click  **Subscriptions**.
21.   In the  **Subscriptions** blade, notice the message, **You don't have any subscriptions.**
    >  **Note:** Note that the Global Admin role grants permissions only to Azure AD tenant objects, not to Azure subscription resources

22.   Click the  **user name** in the upper-right corner and click **Sign out** in the drop-down menu.
23.   Close the Internet Explorer InPrivate Browsing session window.


#### Task 4: Delete the new Azure AD user
  
1.   Switch back to the Azure classic portal. 
2.   On the  **default directory** page, click the entry in the **USER NAME** column of **Kari Tran** user account.
3.   Click  **DELETE** in the command bar at the bottom of the page.
4.   When you receive a prompt for confirmation, click  **YES**. 
5.   Click the  **back** **arrow** in the upper-left corner of the portal interface.
6.   Leave the Azure classic portal open in Internet Explorer.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have used the Azure classic portal to create Azure AD user accounts, configure one of them as a Global Admin, and grant the other full permissions to your Azure subscription.


## Exercise 2: Create a new Azure AD Tenant and a custom DNS domain
  
#### Task 1: Create a new Azure AD tenant in an Azure subscription
  
1.   From the  **active directory** page in the Azure classic portal, click **+NEW** in the lower-left corner.
2.   Click  **DIRECTORY**.
3.   Click  **CUSTOM CREATE**. 
4.   In the  **Add directory** dialog box, enter the following settings, and then select the **Complete** check mark:
  -   Directory:  **Create new directory**

  -   Name:  **AdatumLab**

  -   Domain Name: Specify a unique name. A green checkmark appears on the right side of the text box if the name is confirmed.

  -   Country or Region:  **United States**

  -   This is a B2C directory: Ensure that this check box is not selected.



#### Task 2: Create a custom domain in the Default Directory of your Azure subscription
  
1.   On the  **active directory** page, click **AdatumLab**.
2.   Click  **DOMAINS**.
3.   Click  **ADD A CUSTOM DOMAIN**.
4.   On the  **Specify a domain name** page, in the **DOMAIN NAME** box, type **adatumlab.com**
5.   Click  **add**.
6.   Click  **Next**.
7.   On the  **Verify adatumlab.com** page, in the **RECORD TYPE** box, note the options: **TXT** record and **MX** record. Note that you will need to create these records in the DNS registrar that hosts the DNS namespace for the custom domain before you click **verify**.
8.   Click  **Complete** to close the **Verify adatumlab.com** page.
9.   Note that the domain appears with  **Unverified** status because you have not completed the verification steps.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the end of the course
  
When you finish the lab, revert all virtual machines to their initial state by performing the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.
2.   In the Virtual Machines list, right-click  **10979C-MIA-CL1**, and then click  **Revert**.
3.   In the Revert Virtual Machine dialog box, click  **Revert**.
4.   Repeat steps 2 and 3 for MSL-TMG1.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created a new Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant by using the Azure classic portal.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  