# Lab Answer Key:  Module 1: Getting started with Microsoft Azure
# Lab: Using the Azure portals
  
## Exercise 1: Customizing the Azure portal interface
  
#### Task 1: Connect to the Azure portal
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, open Internet Explorer, and then browse to https://portal.azure.com. 
2.   If you receive a prompt, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription. 


#### Task 2: Explore and customize the Azure portal interface
  
1.   Once the Azure portal loads, view the tiles on the dashboard, noting the service health of the Azure datacenters.
2.   Click the  **Service health** tile, and then in the resulting **Service health** blade, note the status of the individual Azure datacenters.
3.   Click  **Microsoft Azure** in the upper-left corner to return to the dashboard.
4.   If the  **Hub** menu is not expanded, click the **Show** menu icon directly underneath the **Microsoft Azure** label in the upper-left corner to expand the **Hub** menu.
5.   On the  **Hub** menu, click **+New**.
6.   In the  **New** blade, review the list of available options, but do not select any.
7.   In the  **Hub** menu, click **Browse** and then, in the list of entries, click **Subscriptions**.
8.   In the  **Subscriptions** blade, right-click the entry that represents your subscription, and then click **Pin to dashboard** from the context menu.
9.   Click the  **Notification** icon (bell) in the horizontal bar in the upper-right part of the portal page, and then verify that the subscription tile was pinned to dashboard successfully.
10.   Click  **Microsoft Azure** in the upper-left corner to return to the dashboard.
11.   Verify that a new tile that represents your subscription appears on the dashboard.
12.   Leave the  **Internet Explorer** window open that shows the Azure portal.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have signed in to the Azure portal and customized its interface successfully.


## Exercise 2: Viewing billing, usage, and quotas data
  
#### Task 1: View resource costs in the Azure portal
  
1.   In the  **Internet Explorer** window that displays the Azure portal, click the dashboard tile that represents your subscription.
2.   In the blade that shows your subscription, note the  **Breakdown of current charges** section.
3.   Scroll down the current blade, and then note the pie chart that shows  **Cost by resource**. Click the pie chart to display the  **Resource costs** blade, which shows a detailed breakdown of resource costs.
>  **Note:** Because this is the beginning of the course, it is likely that the subscription has not incurred any charges. In this case, you will see a message that usage or billing data is not available. You should consider revisiting this interface on the second day of the course. Additionally, keep in mind that this interface will allow you to track cost of resources going forward, so you should review it frequently.


#### Task 2: View billing data in the Azure Account Center
  
1.   In the blade, that shows your subscription within the Azure portal, click  **Manage**. This will open another Internet Explorer tab, which redirects you to https://account.windowsazure.com automatically.
2.   If you receive a prompt, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   On the  **Summary** page, note that the **OVERVIEW** tab is active. Review its contents.
4.   Click  **Download usage details**. This will redirect you to the  **BILLING HISTORY** tab automatically.
5.   Click  **Download usage** for the most recent billing period. Note that you have the option of downloading Version 1 or Version 2 usage data. The latter contains the tagging data, which allows you to associate charges with your custom tags.
6.   Do not download the usage report. To view the report, you must use Microsoft Excel, which is not installed on your computer.
7.   Close Internet Explorer.


#### Task 3: View usage data and quotas in the Azure classic portal
  
1.   Open Internet Explorer, and then browse to https://manage.windowsazure.com. 
2.   If you receive a prompt, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription. 
3.   If the  **WINDOWS AZURE TOUR** dialog box opens, close it by clicking the **x** icon in the upper-right corner.
4.   If the  **Check out the new portal** dialog box opens, close it by clicking the **x** icon in the upper-right corner.
5.   If the  **NEW** dialog box opens, close it by clicking the **x** icon in the upper-right corner.
6.   On the left side of the page, note the vertical bar that contains icons for individual services. Scroll to the bottom of this bar, and then click  **SETTINGS**.
7.   On the  **settings** page, click the **USAGE** tab.
8.   Note the  **IN USE** and **AVAILABLE** labels, and the bars underneath, which represent the total usage and quotas of cores, cloud services, and storage accounts within your subscription.
    >  **Note:** You might not see any usage at this point. However, keep in mind that this interface will allow you to track the resources that you are using, so you should review it frequently.

9.   Close  **Internet Explorer**.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have viewed your Azure subscription billing and usage data successfully.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  