# Module 1: Getting started with Microsoft Azure
# Lab: Using the Azure portals
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum Corporation is a manufacturing company, based in the United States, with satellite offices and 1,000 employees around the world. A. Datum does not use cloud-based services for any of its technology needs. Its employees are well-versed in Microsoft technologies and tools, and the IT department is fully proficient in configuring and maintaining Active Directory, and in using SQL Server, Windows Server, and Visual Studio for administrative tasks.

However, A. Datum wants to investigate how Azure could help reduce IT deployment, management, and development costs. A. Datum managers believe this might drastically reduce the total cost of ownership of their applications and provide simplified world-wide access to these applications. A. Datum intends to evaluate which of their IT services can run efficiently in Azure.

To prepare for future deployments to Azure, you plan to become familiar with the interface of the Azure portals, focusing on their customizability and the support for retrieving billing data.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Customize the Azure portal interface.
-   Display billing and usage data for your Azure subscription
>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab Setup
  
Estimated Time: 20 minutes

Virtual machine:  **10979C-MIA-CL1**

User name:  **Admin**

Password:  **Pa$$w0rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.
2.   In Hyper-V Manager, click  **10979C-MIA-CL1**, and then in the Actions pane, click  **Start**.
3.   In the Actions pane, click  **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts. 
4.   Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  -   User name:  **Admin**
  -   Password:  **Pa$$w0rd**

5.   You also need to start  **MSL-TMG1** for Internet access.


## Exercise 1: Customizing the Azure portal interface
  
### Scenario
  
As part of exploring the Azure portal interface, you want to customize it so you can find information easily.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Connect to the Azure portal 
2.   Explore and customize the Azure portal interface


#### Task 1: Connect to the Azure portal
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, open Internet Explorer, and then browse to the Azure portal located at https://portal.azure.com.
2.   If you receive a prompt, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription. 


#### Task 2: Explore and customize the Azure portal interface
  
1.   After the Azure portal loads, view the tiles on the dashboard, noting the service health of the Azure datacenters.
2.   View the status of the individual Azure datacenters. 
3.   Return to the dashboard.
4.   Expand the  **Hub** menu.
5.   On the  **Hub** menu, click **+New** and, then in the **New** blade, review the list of available options, but do not select any.
6.   Browse to the  **Subscriptions** blade, and then pin the entry that represents your subscription to the dashboard.
7.   View the corresponding notification, and then verify that the subscription tile was pinned to the dashboard successfully.
8.   Return to the dashboard, and then verify that a new tile that represents your subscription appears on the dashboard.
9.   Leave the  **Internet Explorer** window open that shows the Azure portal.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have signed in to the Azure portal and customized its interface successfully.


## Exercise 2: Viewing billing, usage, and quotas data
  
### Scenario
  
You now need to identify how to view your subscription's billing and usage data.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   View resource costs in the Azure portal
2.   View billing data in the Azure Account Center
3.   View usage data and quotas in the Azure classic portal
4.   Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: View resource costs in the Azure portal
  
1.   In the  **Internet Explorer** window that displays the Azure portal, navigate to the blade that represents your subscription.
2.   In the blade that shows your subscription, note the  **Breakdown of current charges** section.
3.   Scroll down the current blade, and then note the pie chart that shows  **Cost by resource**. Click the pie chart to display the  **Resource costs** blade, which shows a detailed breakdown of resource costs.
>  **Note:** Because this is the beginning of the course, it is likely that the subscription has not incurred any charges. In this case, you will see a message that usage or billing data is not available. You should consider revisiting this interface on the second day of the course. Additionally, keep in mind that this interface will allow you to track cost of resources going forward, so you should review it frequently.


#### Task 2: View billing data in the Azure Account Center
  
1.   From the Azure portal, navigate to the Azure Account Center. 
2.   If you receive a prompt, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   On the  **Summary** page, review the **OVERVIEW** tab.
4.   Switch to the  **BILLING HISTORY** tab.
5.   Click  **Download usage** for the most recent billing period. Note that you have the option of downloading Version 1 or Version 2 usage data. The latter contains the tagging data, which allows you to associate charges with your custom tags.
6.   Do not download the usage report. To view the report, you must use Microsoft Excel, which is not installed on your computer.
7.   Close Internet Explorer.


#### Task 3: View usage data and quotas in the Azure classic portal
  
1.   Open Internet Explorer, and then browse to the Azure classic portal.
2.   If you receive a prompt, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription. 
3.   If the  **WINDOWS AZURE TOUR** dialog box opens, close it.
4.   If the  **Check out the new portal** dialog box opens, close it.
5.   If the  **NEW** dialog box opens, close it.
6.   In the Azure classic portal, navigate to the  **settings** page and click the **USAGE** tab.
7.   Note the  **IN USE** and **AVAILABLE** labels, and the bars underneath, representing the total usage and quotas of cores, cloud services, and storage accounts within your subscription.
    >  **Note:** You might not see any usage at this point. However, keep in mind that this interface will allow you to track the resources that you will are using, so you should review it frequently.

8.   Close  **Internet Explorer**.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have viewed your Azure subscription billing and usage data successfully.



**Question** 
The lab showed you how you use different methods to view charges of services and resources in your subscription. Which method allows you to download an Excel spreadsheet that contains billing data?


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  