# Module 7: Microsoft Azure Databases
# Lab: Creating a SQL Database in Azure
  
### Scenario
  
To accommodate a steadily increasing volume of Internet-based customers, A. Datum has decided to store its marketing data in a dedicated database hosted in Microsoft Azure. You are considering using Azure SQL Database for this purpose and have decided to test its capabilities.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, students will be able to:

-   Create an Azure SQL database.
-   Create a table in an Azure SQL database.
-   Add data to a table in an Azure SQL database.
-   Query the content of a table in an Azure SQL database
> **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab Setup
  
Estimated Time: **20 minutes**

Virtual machine: **10979D-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Admin**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available VM environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start **Hyper-V Manager**.
2.   In Hyper-V Manager, click **10979D-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
3.   In the **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. 
4.   Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  -   User name: **Admin**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

5.   You also need to start **MSL-TMG1** for Internet access.


## Exercise 1: Create a new Azure SQL database in Azure and configure SQL Server firewall rules
  
### Scenario
  
You start your tests by creating a test database to which you will subsequently add some test tables. You will then populate the tables with sample data.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create a new Azure SQL database by using the Azure Portal
2.   Configure an Azure SQL Server firewall rule by using Azure Portal


#### Task 1: Create a new Azure SQL database by using the Azure Portal
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   Create a new SQL database by specifying the following settings:

  -   Database name: **10979D07labDB1**.

  -   Subscription: _Your Azure subscription_

  -   Resource group: **Create new** **10979D07-LabRG01**

  -   Select source: **Blank database**

  -   Server name: _Any valid unique name_

  -   Server admin login: **Student**

  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

  -   Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd**

  -   Location: _The Azure region that is closest to the classroom location and that is available in your subscription_

  -   Want to use SQL elastic pool? : **Not now**

  -   Pricing tier: **Basic**

  -   Collation: **SQL_Latin1_General_CP1_CI_AS**

  -   Pin to dashboard: _Enabled_

#### Task 2: Configure an Azure SQL Server firewall rule by using Azure Portal
  
1.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the **10979D07labDB1** blade.
2.   From the **10979D07labDB1** blade, navigate to the **Firewall settings** of the server hosting the newly created Azure SQL database.
3.   Add a firewall rule representing the client IP to the list of firewall rules.
4.   In the **START IP** column of the newly added firewall rule, replace the last two numbers separated by a period with **0.0**. 
5.   In the **END IP** column of the newly added firewall rule, replace the last two numbers separated by a period with **255.255**.
6.   Click **Save**.
> **Note:** It might take up to five minutes for this change to take effect.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created a Microsoft Azure SQL database named 10979D07labDB1 on a new server with a name of your choice. You will have also configured Microsoft SQL Server firewall rules in Azure, which allow connectivity from your on-premises management tools and applications to the newly created SQL database in Azure.


## Exercise 2: Manage content of an Azure SQL database by using SQL Server Management Studio
  
### Scenario
  
You created a test database. Now it is time to create a test table, populate it with sample data, and verify that data has been added by using SQL Server Management Studio.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Add a table to an Azure SQL Database by using SQL Server Management Studio
2.   Add data to a table of a SQL database in Azure by using SQL Server Management Studio.
3.   Query a table of an Azure SQL database in Azure by using SQL Server Management Studio
4.   Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Add a table to an Azure SQL Database by using SQL Server Management Studio
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start SQL Server Management Studio.
2.   From SQL Server Management Studio, connect to SQL Server in Azure by specifying the following information (replace  **_server_name_** with the unique name you specified when creating your SQL Database server in the previous exercise):

  -   Server type: **Database Engine**

  -   Server name: **_server_name_.database.windows.net**

  -   Authentication: **SQL Server Authentication**

  -   Login: **Student**

  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

3.   If the connection attempt fails indicating that the client IP address is not allowed to access the server, note the IP address in the error message. Switch to Microsoft Edge and, on the **Firewall settings** blade, create a new rule by specifying the following settings and then clicking **Save**:

  -   RULE NAME: **ClientIPAddressMod7**

  -   START IP: _IP address that you noted in the error message_

  -   END IP:  _IP address that you noted in the error message_

    > **Note:** Note that it might take up to five minutes for this change to take effect.


4.   Create a new table in the **10979D07labDB1** SQL database in Azure by running the following T-SQL command from SQL Server Management Studio, and then click **Execute**.
  ```
  CREATE TABLE dbo.testTable
(
 id integer identity primary key,
 dataval nvarchar(50)
);
GO
  ```
5.   In Object Explorer, expand the **10979D07labDB1** node, expand the **Tables** folder and verify that **dbo.testTable** is listed (if not, right-click **Tables**, and then click **Refresh**).
6.   Leave the SQL Server Management Studio open for the next task


#### Task 2: Add data to a table of a SQL database in Azure by using SQL Server Management Studio.
  
1.   Populate the content of the newly created table by running the following T-SQL command from SQL Server Management Studio, and then click **Execute**:
  ```
  INSERT INTO dbo.testTable
VALUES
(newid());
GO 100
  ```
2.   Leave the SQL Server Management Studio open for the next task.


#### Task 3: Query a table of an Azure SQL database in Azure by using SQL Server Management Studio
  
1.   In Object Explorer, right-click **dbo.testTable**, in the context menu click **Script Table as**, click **SELECT To**, and then click **New Query Editor Window**. This generates a Transact-SQL query that retrieves data from the table.
2.   On the toolbar, in the **Available Databases** list, ensure that **10979D07labDB1** is selected, and then click **Execute**.
3.   View the query results and verify that a table of **id** and **dataval** values is returned.
4.   Close SQL Server Management Studio and Microsoft Edge. Do not save changes when prompted.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   From the Azure Portal, delete the **10979D07-LabRG01** resource group.
3.   Unpin **10979D07labDB1** tile from the Azure portal dashboard.
4.   Close Microsoft Edge.

When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created a test table in the SQL database in Azure named 10979D07labDB1 on an existing SQL Server in Azure with a name of your choice, populated it with sample data, and queried its content.



**Question** 
In the lab, you connected to an Azure SQL database by using SQL Server Management Studio. What configuration change must you make first before successfully establishing the connection?

**Question** 
What authentication method can you use when connecting to Azure SQL Database?


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
