# Module 6: Cloud storage
# Lab: Configure Azure Storage
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum has an archive of media files stored on your on-premises file servers. You want to perform a test transfer of these files to Azure Blob storage.


### Objectives
  
After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

-   Create an Azure Storage account and a blob container.
-   Upload a blob to the storage account container.
> **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab Setup
  
Estimated Time: **20 minutes**

Virtual machine: **10979D-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Admin**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available VM environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start **Hyper-V Manager**.
2.   In Hyper-V Manager, click **10979D-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
3.   In the **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. 
4.   Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  -   User name: **Admin**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

5.   You also need to start **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** for Internet access.


## Exercise 1: Create an Azure Storage account
  
### Scenario
  
Before you start managing your data in Azure, you should first create a storage account, examine the account's properties, and copy its access key to a text file.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create a storage account in Azure
2.   View the properties of your storage account and copy the access key


#### Task 1: Create a storage account in Azure
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   From Azure Portal, create a new storage account with the following settings: 

  -   Name: _Any valid, unique name (between 3 and 24 characters consisting of lowercase letters and digits)_

  -   Deployment model: **Resource manager**

  -   Account kind: **General purpose**

  -   Performance: **Standard**

  -   Replication: **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**

  -   Storage service encryption (blobs and files): **Disabled**

  -   Secure transfer required: **Disabled**

  -   Subscription: _Your Azure subscription_

  -   Resource group: **Create new** **10979D06-LabRG01**

  -   Location: _The Azure region that is closest to the classroom location and that is available in your subscription_

  -   Pin to dashboard: _Selected_

3.   Wait for the storage account to be provisioned. This will take about a minute. When the deployment completes, the portal will display the storage account with its **Settings** blade open.


#### Task 2: View the properties of your storage account and copy the access key
  
1.   In Azure Portal, with your storage account open, review the **Essentials** section, including the location, replication, and performance settings.
2.   Display the **Access keys** blade.  In the **Access keys** blade, notice that you have the option of copying the values of storage account names including key1 and key2. You also have the ability to regenerate both keys.
3.   In the **Access key** blade, copy the access key of key1 to clipboard.
4.   On MIA-CL1, launch File Explorer.
5.   From File Explorer, create a new text document in the **Documents** folder named **storage-key.txt**.
6.   Paste the access key that you copied to clipboard into the file and save the file. Keep Notepad open. You will need it for the next exercise.
7.   Display the **Configuration** blade.
8.   In the **Configuration** blade, notice that you have the option of changing the replication settings. However, you cannot change the performance setting (this can only be assigned when the storage account is created).
9.   Close the **Settings** blade but leave the storage account pane open.

> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have created your Azure Storage, examined its properties, and copied its access key to a text file.


## Exercise 2: Create and access blobs
  
### Scenario
  
Now that you have created your storage account, you need to create a container, upload data to the container, and access it by using storage account key.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create a container
2.   Upload data to the container by using the Azure portal
3.   Access content of Azure Storage account by using Azure Web Storage Explorer
4.   Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Create a container
  
-   From the storage account blade, create a new blob container with the following settings:

  -   Name: **labcontainer**
  -   Access type: **Private**


#### Task 2: Upload data to the container by using the Azure portal
  
1.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the blade displaying the newly created container.
2.   From the container blade, upload the file **C:\\Windows\\ImmersiveControlPanel\\images\\splashscreen.contrast-white_scale-400.png**. Use the default values of the **Block type** and **Block size**.


#### Task 3: Access content of Azure Storage account by using Azure Web Storage Explorer
  
1.   From the **labcontainer** blade, identify the URL of the newly uploaded blob. 
2.   Start Microsoft Edge and navigate to that URL.
3.   Note the **ResourceNotFound** error message. This is expected since the blob is residing in a private container, which requires authenticated access. 
4.   Switch to the Notepad window showing the content of the **storage-key.txt** file and copy the storage account access key into the clipboard (in case you overwrote it in the meantime).
5.   Open a new Microsoft Edge window and browse to **https://azurestorage.azurewebsites.net/home**
6.   On the **Azure Web Storage Explorer** page, sign in using the name of your Azure Storage account and the corresponding Azure Storage account key. 
7.   In the **Azure Web Storage Explorer** window, navigate to  **labcontainer**.
8.   Download to the Downloads folder the file you uploaded to the container from the Azure portal.
9.   Make sure that you can view the file by opening it in Microsoft Paint. 
10.   Close Microsoft Paint and Microsoft Edge.

#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   From the Azure Portal, delete the **10979D06-LabRG01** resource group.
3.   Close Microsoft Edge.

When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have created a blob container, uploaded a file into it, and accessed it by using the Azure Storage account key from a browser.



**Question** 
Can you convert a Standard storage account into a Premium Storage account?

**Question** 
Is it possible to upload a file to an Azure Storage blob by using Azure Portal?


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
