# Module 3: Virtual machines in Microsoft Azure
# Lab: Creating a VM in Azure
  
### Scenario
  
Orders at A. Datum Corporation have increased significantly. Currently, the order system runs on an on-premises server which provides other services. You have decided to migrate the order system to a dedicated Azure VM. The VM must include sufficient local storage to accommodate increased volume of orders.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Create an Azure VM by using the Azure Portal.
-   Connect to a VM by using RDP.
-   Attach a data disk to a VM.
-   Create a multidisk volume by using Storage Spaces.
> **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab Setup
  
Estimated Time: **30 minutes**

Virtual machine: **10979D-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Admin**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available VM environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start **Hyper-V Manager**.
2.   In Hyper-V Manager, click **10979D-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
3.   In the **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. 
4.   Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  -   User name: **Admin**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

5.   You also need to start **MSL-TMG1** for Internet access.


## Exercise 1: Create a VM from the Azure Portal by using an Azure Marketplace image
  
### Scenario
  
To prepare for deployment of a new Azure-dedicated VM, you decide to test the process of creating a new Azure VM from the Azure Portal by using an Azure Marketplace Windows Server 2016 Datacenter image.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Select and create a VM
2.   Verify VM creation


#### Task 1: Select and create a VM
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge and browse to **http://portal.azure.com**. Sign in to the Azure Portal as the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   From the Azure Portal, create a new VM by using the Windows Server 2016 Datacenter Marketplace image and Resource Manager deployment model with the following settings:

  -   Name: **10979D03LabVM1**
  
  -   VM Disk type: **HDD** 

  -   User name: **Student**

  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

  -   Subscription: _Your Azure subscription_

  -   Resource group: **Create new**

  -   New resource group: **10979D03-LabRG01**

  -   Location: _Azure region closest to the classroom location that is available in your subscription_

  -   Size: **D1_V2 Standard**

  -   Use managed disks: **Yes**

  -   Virtual network: _Accept the default value (this will create a new virtual network)_

  -   Subnet: _Accept the default value (this will create a /24 subnet named **default** within the IP address space of the virtual network)_

  -   Public IP address: **(new) 10979D03LabVM1-ip**

  -   Network security group: **(new) 10979D03LabVM1-nsg**

  -   Extensions: **No extensions**

  -   Availability set: **None**

  -   Boot Diagnostics: **Disabled**

  -   Guest OS Diagnostics: **Disabled**

3.   Note the **Deployment started** message in the notification area at the top of the page.
4.   Wait for the deployment to complete.


#### Task 2: Verify VM creation
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure Portal, once the deployment of the 10979D03LabVM1 VM completes, you will be automatically presented with the **10979D03LabVM1** blade. If that is not the case, navigate to the **10979D03LabVM1** blade.
2.   Click **Activity log**. Note that the blade allows you to search for activities affecting the VM that you or other admins carried out.
3.   Click **Overview**. 
4.   Click **Resource health**.
5.   Verify that there are no known Azure platform problems affecting this VM. Click **Refresh** if you receive a "Resource health unknown' message.
6.   Close the Resource health blade.

> **Result**: After completing this lab, you should have created a Microsoft Azure virtual machine (VM) from the Azure Portal by using an Azure Marketplace image, as well as review activity logs and resource health of the VM.


## Exercise 2: Verify the functionality of the VM
  
### Scenario
  
You successfully deployed your lab Azure VM running Windows Server 2016 Datacenter. Now you want to examine its properties from the Azure Portal and connect to it by using RDP.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   View the properties of the VM
2.   Connect to a VM


#### Task 1: View the properties of the VM
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure Portal, on the **10979D03LabVM1** blade, click **Overview**.
2.   On the **10979D03LabVM1** blade, review the **Essentials** section. You will notice that the VM has a public IP address, but not a corresponding Domain Name System (DNS) name label. In addition, the **Connect** button will be enabled.
3.   Click **Properties**.
4.   Notice that the VM also has a private IP address and the VM agent with a status of **Ready**.


#### Task 2: Connect to a VM
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure Portal, from the **10979D03LabVM1** blade, establish an RDP connection to the **10979D03LabVM1** VM by using the following credentials:

  -   User name: **Student**

  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

2.   Wait until the connection is successfully established.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have viewed properties of an Azure VM from the Azure Portal and connected to an Azure VM by using Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP).


## Exercise 3: Configure storage of a VM
  
### Scenario
  
Once you established an RDP connection to your VM, you want to test the Storage Spaces functionality by first attaching two data disks from the Azure Portal and then configuring them from the operating system that runs within the VM.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Attach data disks to an Azure VM
2.   Create a two-disk volume in the Azure VM that runs Windows
3.   Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Attach data disks to an Azure VM
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure Portal, navigate to **10979D03LabVM1** blade. 
2.   From the **10979D03LabVM1** blade, attach a new disk with the following settings:

  -   Name: **10979D03LabVM1_DataDisk1**

  -   Resource group: **Use existing** **10979D03-LabRG01**

  -   Account type: **Standard_LRS**

  -   Source type: **None (empty disk)**

  -   Size (GB): **128**

3.   Wait until the first disk is provisioned and then set its host caching to **Read-only**.
4.   From the **10979D03LabVM1** blade, attach a new disk with the following settings:

  -   Name: **10979D03LabVM1_DataDisk2**

  -   Resource group: **Use existing** **10979D03-LabRG01**

  -   Account type: **Standard (HDD)**

  -   Source type: **None (empty disk)**

  -   Size (GB): **128**

5.   Wait until the second is provisioned and then set its host caching to **Read-only**.
6. Save your changes.


#### Task 2: Create a two-disk volume in the Azure VM that runs Windows
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, switch to the Remote Desktop session window. If prompted, on the Networks pane, click **No**.
2.   While connected to the 10979D03LabVM1 Azure VM, from the **Server Manager** window, create a storage pool named **StoragePool1**, consisting of two newly attached disks. 
3.   From the Server Manager window, create a new virtual disk named **VirtualDisk1** by using **StoragePool1** with the **Simple** storage layout, the **Fixed** provisioning type, and the maximum size.
4.   From the Server Manager window, create a new 254 GB volume as drive F formatted with the NTFS file system and a default allocation unit.
5.   From the desktop of, 10979D03LabVM1 open File Explorer and verify that there is a new drive F with 253 GB of available disk space.
6.   Close the Remote Desktop session to 10979D03LabVM1.
7.   Close all open windows on MIA-CL1.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   From the Azure Portal, delete the **10979D03-LabRG01** resource group.
3.   Unpin 10979D03LabVM1 tile from the Azure portal dashboard.
4.   Close Microsoft Edge.

When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the VMs. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this lab, you should have attached two data disks to the Azure VM from the Azure Portal and created a two-disk volume in an Azure VM that runs Windows Server 2016 by using Storage Spaces.


**Question** 
By default, what type of connection can you establish to a Windows VM that you provisioned by the Azure portal?


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
