# Lab Answer Key:  Module 6: Cloud storage
# Lab: Configure Azure Storage
  
## Exercise 1: Create an Azure Storage account
  
#### Task 1: Create a storage account in Azure
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In Azure Portal, click **+ Create a resource** in the upper left corner.
3.   In the **New** blade, click **Storage**.
4.   In the **Storage** blade, click **Storage account - blob, file, table, queue**.
5.   In the **Create storage account** blade, specify the following settings and click **Create**.

  -   Name: _Any valid, unique name (between 3 and 24 characters consisting of lowercase letters and digits)_

  -   Deployment model: **Resource manager**

  -   Account kind: **Storage (general purpose v1)**
  
  -   Location: _The Azure region that is closest to the classroom location and that is available in your subscription_

  -   Replication: **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**
  
  -   Performance: **Standard**

  -   Secure transfer required: **Disabled**

  -   Subscription: _Your Azure subscription_

  -   Resource group: **Create new** **10979D06-LabRG01**

  -   Virtual networks (Preview): **Disabled**
  
  -   Pin to dashboard: _Selected_

6.   Wait for the storage account to be provisioned. This will take about a minute. When the deployment completes, the portal will display the storage account blade open.  If the storage account blade doesn't open, select the Notifications (bell) icon and click the **Go to resource** button for your storage account deployment.


#### Task 2: View the properties of your storage account and copy the access key
  
1.   In Azure Portal, with your storage account open, review the **Essentials** section, including the location, replication, and performance settings.
2.   Click **Access keys**. On the **Access keys** blade, notice that you have the option of copying the storage account name and both key1 and key2. You also have the ability to regenerate both keys.
3.   On the **Access keys** blade, click the **Click to copy** icon next to key1. If prompted about whether to allow the webpage to access your clipboard, click **Allow access**. Then, click **Click to copy** again.
4.   On the taskbar, click **File Explorer**
5.   In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, click **Documents**.
6.   In the right pane, right-click an empty area, click **New**, and then click **Text Document**.
7.   In the file name, replace **New Text Document** with **storage-key**, and then press Enter.
8.   Double-click the newly created file. The file will open in Notepad. 
9.   In Notepad, paste the access key that you copied to Clipboard into the file.
10.   Click **File** and then click **Save**. Keep Notepad open, you will need it for the next exercise.
11.   Switch back to the Azure portal and click **Configuration**.
12.   In the **Configuration** blade, notice that you have the option of changing the replication settings. However, you cannot change the performance setting (this can only be assigned when the storage account is created).

> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have created your Azure Storage, examined its properties, and copied its access key to a text file.


## Exercise 2: Create and access blobs
  
#### Task 1: Create a container
  
1.   In the Azure portal, on the storage account blade, click **Overview**. 
2.   In the **Services** section, click **Blobs**. 
2.   On the **Blob service** blade, click **+ Container**.
3.   When prompted, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**.

  -   Name: **labcontainer**

  -   Public access level: **Private (no anonymous access)**


#### Task 2: Upload data to the container by using the Azure portal
  
1.   In the Azure portal, click the name of the newly created container.
2.   On the **labcontainer** blade, click **Upload**.
3.   On the **Upload blob** blade, click the folder icon next to the **Files** text box.
4.   In the **Open** dialog box, navigate to the **C:\\Windows\\ImmersiveControlPanel\\images** folder.
5.   Click **splashscreen.contrast-white_scale-400.png**, and then click **Open**.
6.   Leave the values of the **Block type** and **Block size** text boxes with their defaults and click **Upload**.


#### Task 3: Access content of Azure Storage account by using Azure Web Storage Explorer
  
1.   On the **labcontainer** blade, click the newly uploaded blob.
2.   In the **Blob properties** blade, click the **Click to copy** icon next to the **URL** text box.
3.   Start Microsoft Edge and, in the **Search or enter web address** text box, paste the URL you copied from the Azure portal.
4.    Note the **ResourceNotFound** error message. This is expected since the blob is residing in a private container, which requires authenticated access. 
5.    Switch to the Notepad window showing the content of the **storage-key.txt** file and copy the storage account access key into the clipboard (in case you overwrote it in the meantime).
6.   Open a new Microsoft Edge window and browse to **https://azurestorage.azurewebsites.net/home**
7.   On the **Azure Web Storage Explorer** page, in the **Account** text box, type the name that you assigned to your storage account at the beginning of this lab, paste the access key that you copied into the clipboard into the **Key** text box, and then press Enter.
8.   Click **labcontainer**.
9.   Click the down-pointing arrow next to the blob you uploaded to the container from the Azure portal.
10.   When prompted whether to save the file, click **Save**.
11.   Click **Open folder**. 
12.   In File Explorer, right-click the downloaded file, in the right-click menu, click **Open with** and then click **Paint**. Verify that you can view the downloaded file. 
13.   Close Microsoft Paint and Microsoft Edge.

#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module

1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the Azure Portal, in the Hub menu, click **Resource groups**.
3.   On the **Resource groups** blade, click the ellipsis (...) on the right hand side of the **10979D06-LabRG01** entry.
4.   Click **Delete**.
5.   On the **Are you sure you want to delete "10979D06-LabRG01"** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, type **10979D06-LabRG01** and click **Delete**.
6.   Close Microsoft Edge.
  
When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have created a blob container, uploaded a file into it, and accessed it from a browser by using the Azure Storage account key.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
