# Module 2: Microsoft Azure management tools
# Lab: Using Microsoft Azure management tools
  
### Scenario
  
To prepare for the deployment of Azure services, you want to become familiar with the primary Azure management tools. Most of your on-premises administrative tasks are automated by means of Windows PowerShell scripts and Linux shell scripts. You have decided to test the use of Azure PowerShell and the Azure CLI.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Install the Azure PowerShell modules and the Azure CLI.
-   Use Azure PowerShell and the Azure CLI to connect to your Azure subscription.
-   Run Azure PowerShell cmdlets and Azure CLI commands against your Azure subscriptions.
>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab Setup
  
Estimated Time: 30 minutes

Virtual machine:  **10979C-MIA-CL1**

User name:  **Admin**

Password:  **Pa$$w0rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.
2.   In Hyper-V Manager, click  **10979C-MIA-CL1**, and then in the Actions pane, click  **Start**.
3.   In the Actions pane, click  **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts. 
4.   Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  -   User name:  **Admin**
  -   Password:  **Pa$$w0rd**

5.   You also need to start  **MSL-TMG1** for Internet access.


## Exercise 1: Using the Azure PowerShell modules
  
### Scenario
  
In this exercise, you will install and use the Azure PowerShell modules.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Install the Azure PowerShell modules
2.   Connect to your Azure subscription
3.   Use Azure PowerShell cmdlets


#### Task 1: Install the Azure PowerShell modules
  
-   On MIA-CL1, download and install the Microsoft Azure PowerShell modules from 
        [http://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/downloads/](http://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/downloads/)
       by using Web PI 5.0.
>  **Note:** Leave the **Web Platform Installer 5.0** window open. Note that you have the option to install other software related to Azure.


#### Task 2: Connect to your Azure subscription
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start the Windows PowerShell ISE as an administrator.
2.   In the  **PowerShell ISE** window, list all the available Windows PowerShell modules by running the following cmdlet:
  ```
  Get-Module -ListAvailable
  ```

    >  **Note:** The output contains a list of several AzureRM.* modules (located in the C:\Program Files\Microsoft SDKs\Azure\PowerShell\Resource Manager\AzureResourceManager folder), the Azure PowerShell module (located in the C:\Program Files\Microsoft SDKs\Azure\PowerShell\ServiceManagement folder), and the Azure.Storage module (located in the (C:\Program Files\Microsoft SDKs\Azure\PowerShell\Storage folder).

3.   Sign in to your Azure subscription with the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription by running the following Azure PowerShell cmdlet: 

```
Add-AzureRmAccount
```
>  **Note:** The cmdlet returns the list of subscriptions associated with your Microsoft account.


#### Task 3: Use Azure PowerShell cmdlets
  
1.   Back in the  **PowerShell ISE** window, in the console pane, retrieve the list of subscriptions associated with your Microsoft account by running the following cmdlet:
  ```
  Get-AzureRmSubscription
  ```
2.   Select the target Azure subscription by running the following cmdlet, replacing  _&lt;Value of the SubscriptionId property&gt;_ with the value of the **SubscriptionID** property returned by the **Get-AzureRmSubscription** cmdlet:
  ```
  Select-AzureRmSubscription -SubscriptionId &lt;Value of the SubscriptionId property&gt;
  ```

    >  **Note:** If you had multiple subscriptions, you would use the preceding cmdlet to specify the Azure subscription you want to work with in the current PowerShell session.

3.   Retrieve the types of Azure Resource Manager resources you can create in your subscription by running the following cmdlet:
  ```
  Get-AzureRmResourceProvider
  ```

    >  **Note:** The cmdlet lists each Azure Resource Provider, its registration state (the provider must be registered before you can use it), and the list of resource types you can create by referencing it.

4.   Identify the list of resources that are implemented by the Microsoft.Compute Azure Resource Manager resource provider (which includes Azure Virtual Machines) by running the following cmdlet:
  ```
  Get-AzureRmResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute
  ```
5.   Identify the list of resources that are implemented by the Microsoft.Compute Azure Resource Manager resource provider in the Eastern United States by running the following cmdlet:
  ```
  Get-AzureRmResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.Compute -Location 'East US'
  ```
6.   Close the Windows PowerShell ISE.
7.   Leave Internet Explorer open.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have successfully installed and used the Azure PowerShell modules.


## Exercise 2: Using the Azure CLI
  
### Scenario
  
In this exercise, you will install and use the Azure CLI. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Install the Azure CLI
2.   Connect to your Azure subscription by using the Azure CLI
3.   Manage your Azure subscription by using the Azure CLI
4.   Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Install the Azure CLI
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, switch to the  **Web Platform Installer 5.0** window.
    >  **Note:** If you accidentally closed the **Web Platform Installer 5.0** window, switch to Start, click the down arrow, and then click **Web Platform Installer 5.0.**

2.   From Web PI 5.0, install the  **Microsoft Azure Cross-platform Command Line Tools**.
3.   Close Web PI 5.0.


#### Task 2: Connect to your Azure subscription by using the Azure CLI
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start the command prompt as an administrator.
2.   In the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command:
  ```
  azure
  ```
3.   If prompted for whether to enable data collection, type  **n**, and then press Enter:
    >  **Note:** A summary of the most-common Azure CLI commands displays.

4.   At the command prompt, run the following command:
  ```
  azure login
  ```

    >  **Note:** A prompt displays, stating **To sign-in, use a web browser to open the page https://aka.ms/devicelogin. Enter the code** _XXXXXXXXX_ **to authenticate**, where  _XXXXXXXXX_ is a random string of characters.

5.   On MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer, and then browse to  **https://aka.ms/devicelogin**. 
6.   On the  **Device Login** page, type the code specified in the note in step 4.
7.   Once you type in the code, you should see the Azure CLI listed on the same page listed as the  **Application publisher**, and then click  **Continue**.
8.   Sign in with the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription. 
    >  **Note:** At this point, the **Windows Azure Cross-platform Command Line Interface** page is visible, confirming that **You have signed in to the Windows Azure Cross-platform Command Line Interface on your device. You may now close the window**.

9.   In case of an error, repeat the steps 4 through 8.
10.   Close the  **Internet Explorer** window as instructed.
11.   Back in the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, note the message confirming that your subscription was added to the current session. The following line also displays:

```
info: login command OK
```


#### Task 3: Manage your Azure subscription by using the Azure CLI
  
1.   To switch to the Resource Manager mode, at the command prompt, run the following command:
  ```
  azure config mode arm
  ```
2.   List your subscriptions by running the following command:
  ```
  azure account list
  ```
3.   Copy the value of the  **Id** property displayed in the output of the preceding command.
4.   Run the following command, using the copied entry after the  _SubscriptionId_ parameter:
  ```
  azure account set &lt;Value of the SubscriptionId property&gt;
  ```

    >  **Note:** If you had multiple subscriptions, you would use the preceding command to specify the Azure subscription you want to work with in the current PowerShell session.

5.   To retrieve the types of Azure Resource Manager providers available in your subscription, run the following command:
  ```
  azure provider list
  ```

    >  **Note:** The output of the command contains each Azure Resource Provider available in your subscription and its registration state (the provider must be registered before you can use it).

6.   To list all the Azure datacenters, run the following command:
  ```
  azure location list
  ```
7.   To identify the list of resources that are implemented by the Microsoft.Compute provider (which includes Azure Virtual Machines) along with the list of locations where they are available, run the following command:
  ```
  azure provider show Microsoft.Compute
  ```
8.   Close the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window.
9.   Close the  **Internet Explorer** window.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have installed and used the Azure CLI tools.



**Question** 
When using the Azure CLI to manage Azure Resource Manager resources, what additional step do you need to perform compared to doing so by using Azure PowerShell?


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  