# Lab Answer Key:  Module 5: Creating and configuring virtual networks
# Lab: Create and configure virtual networks
  
## Exercise 1: Creating virtual networks
  
#### Task 1: Create virtual networks by using Azure Portal
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, go to **http://portal.azure.com**, and then, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription. 
2.   In the **Hub** menu on the left side of the portal page, click **New**.
3.   On the **New** blade, click **Networking**.
4.   On the **Networking** blade, click **Virtual Network**.
5.   On the **Create virtual network** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **Create**:

  -   Name: **labVNet1**

  -   Address space: **10.0.0.0/16**

  -   Subnet name: **Subnet1**

  -   Subnet address range: **10.0.0.0/24**

  -   Subscription:  _Your Azure subscription_

  -   Resource group: **Create new**

  -   New resource group name: **10979D05-LabRG01**

  -   Location: _The Azure region that is closest to the classroom location and that is available in your subscription_

  -   Pin to dashboard: Select the check box.

    > **Note:** Ignore any messages about overlapping address spaces that might appear when you type the value in the **Address space** text box.

6.   In the **Hub** menu on the left side of the portal page, click **New**.
7.   On the **New** blade, click **Networking**.
8.   On the **Networking** blade, click **Virtual Network**.
9.   On the **Create virtual network** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **Create**:

  -   Name: **labVNet2**

  -   Address space: **10.1.0.0/16**

  -   Subnet name: **Subnet1**

  -   Subnet address range: **10.1.0.0/24**

  -   Subscription:  _Your Azure subscription_

  -   Resource group: **Use existing** **10979D05-LabRG01**

  -   Location: _the same Azure region you chose when creating the first virtual network_

  -   Pin to dashboard: Select the check box.

    > **Note:** Ignore any messages about overlapping address spaces that might appear when you type the value in the **Address space** text box.

10.   Leave Microsoft Edge with the Azure portal open. 


#### Task 2: Configure VNet peering by using the Azure portal
  
1.   On the dashboard of the Azure portal, click **labVNet1**. 

2.   On the **labVNet1** blade, click **Peerings**.

3.   Click **+ Add**.

4.   On the **Add peering** blade, in the **Name** text box, type **labVNet1-labVNet2**.

5.   Ensure that the **Virtual network deployment model** is set to **Resource manager**.

6.   Ensure that **Subscription** is set to the Azure subscription you intend to use for this lab.

7.   Click **Choose a virtual network**.

8.   On the **Choose virtual network** blade, click **labVNet2**.

9.   Ensure that **Allow virtual network access** is set to **Enabled**. 

10.   Leave remaining settings **Allow forwarded traffic**, **Allow gateway transit**, and **Use remote gateways** with their default values (disabled).

11.   Click **OK**.

12.   Click **Microsoft Azure** in the upper left corner of the portal.

13.   On the dashboard of the Azure portal, click **labVNet2**. 

14.   On the **labVNet2** blade, click **Peerings**.

15.   Click **+ Add**.

16.   On the **Add peering** blade, in the **Name** text box, type **labVNet2-labVNet1**.

17.   Ensure that the **Virtual network deployment model** is set to **Resource manager**.

18.   Ensure that **Subscription** is set to the Azure subscription you intend to use for this lab.

19.   Click **Choose a virtual network**.

20.   On the **Choose virtual network** blade, click **labVNet1**.

21.   Ensure that **Allow virtual network access** is set to **Enabled**. 

22.   Leave remaining settings **Allow forwarded traffic**, **Allow gateway transit**, and **Use remote gateways** with their default values (disabled).

23.   Click **OK**.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created two Azure virtual networks and configured VNet peering between them by using the Azure portal 


## Exercise 2: Verifying virtual network functionality
  
#### Task 1: Deploy Azure virtual machines into existing virtual networks
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal in the Microsoft Edge window, in the **Hub** menu on the left side of the portal page, click **New**.
2.   On the **New** blade, click **Compute**.
3.   On the **Compute** blade, click **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter**.
4.   On the **Basics** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:

  -   Name: **10979D05LabVM1**

  -   VM disk type: **HDD**

  -   User name: **Student**

  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

  -   Subscription: _your Azure subscription_

  -   Resource group:: **Use existing** **10979D05-LabRG01**

  -   Location: _The same Azure region to which you deployed the two virtual networks in the first exercise of this lab_

5.   On the **Choose a size** blade, click **View all**.
6.   On the **Choose a size** blade, click **D1_V2 Standard**, and then click **Select**. 
7.   On the **Settings** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:

  -   Use managed disks: **Yes**

  -   Virtual network: **labVNet1**

  -   Subnet: **Subnet1 (10.0.0.0/24)**

  -   Public IP address: **(new) 10979D05LabVM1-ip**

  -   Network security group: **(new) 10979D05LabVM1-nsg**

  -   Extensions: **No extensions**

  -   Availability set: None

  -   Boot diagnostics: **Disabled**

  -   Guest OS diagnostics: **Disabled**

8.   On the **Summary** blade, note the **Validation passed** message, and then click **OK**. Proceed directly to the next step without waiting for the deployment to complete.
9.   On the **New** blade, click **Compute**.
10.   On the **Compute** blade, click **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter**.
11.   On the **Basics** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:

  -   Name: **10979D05LabVM2**

  -   VM disk type: **HDD**

  -   User name: **Student**

  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

  -   Subscription: _your Azure subscription_
	
  -   Resource group:: **Use existing** **10979D05-LabRG01**

  -   Location: _The same Azure region to which you deployed the two virtual networks in the first exercise of this lab_

12.   On the **Choose a size** blade, click **View all**.
13.   On the **Choose a size** blade, click **D1_V2 Standard**, and then click **Select**. 
14.   On the **Settings** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:

  -   Use managed disks: **Yes**

  -   Virtual network: _click **Virtual network** and then click **labVNet2**_

  -   Subnet: **Subnet1 (10.1.0.0/24)**

  -   Public IP address: **(new) 10979D05LabVM2-ip**

  -   Network security group: **(new) 10979D05LabVM2-nsg**

  -   Extensions: **No extensions**

  -   Availability set: None

  -   Boot diagnostics: **Disabled**

  -   Guest OS diagnostics: **Disabled**

15.   On the **Summary** blade, note the **Validation passed** message, and then click **OK**. 
16.   Wait for both deployments to complete before proceeding to the next task. Leave Microsoft Edge with the Azure portal open.


#### Task 2: Test Virtual network connectivity
  
1.   In Microsoft Edge, in the Azure portal, in the **Hub** menu, click **Virtual machines**.
2.   On the **Virtual machines** blade, click **10979D05LabVM2**. 
3.   On the **10979D05LabVM2** blade, click **Properties**. Note the IP address listed directly under the **PRIVATE IP ADDRESS** label. This is the private IP address of **10979D05LabVM2**.
4.   Scroll back to the **Virtual machines** blade, and then on the **Virtual machines** blade, click **10979D05LabVM1**. 
5.   On the **10979D05LabVM1** blade, click **Connect**.
6.   When prompted whether to save the .rdp file, click **Save**.
7.   Once the file has been saved, click **Open**.
8.   In the **Remote Desktop Connection** window, click **Connect**.
9.   In the **Windows Security** dialog box specify the following details, and then click **OK**:

  -   User name: **Student**

  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

10.   In the **Remote Desktop Connection** window, click **Yes**, and then wait until the connection is successfully established.
11.   In the RDP session to the **10979D05LabVM1** virtual machine, right-click the Windows logo in the lower-left corner, and then click **Run**.
12.   In the **Open** text box, type the following command (where 10.1.0.4 is the private IP address of **10979D05LabVM2**, which you identified in step 3 of this task), and then press Enter:
  ```
  mstsc /admin /h:768 /w:1024 /v:10.1.0.4
  ```
    > **Note:** If the IP address you identified in step 3 is different, then specify that IP address when typing the above command.

13.   When prompted for credentials, in the **Windows Security** dialog box specify the following and then click **OK**:
  -   User name: **Student**

  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

14.   In the **Remote Desktop Connection** window, click **Yes**. Verify that you have successfully connected to the **10979D05LabVM2** virtual machine by using its private IP address, and then close the Remote Desktop session to **10979D05LabVM1**.
15.   Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the Azure Portal, in the Hub menu, click **Resource groups**.
3.   On the **Resource groups** blade, click the ellipsis (...) on the right hand side of the **10979D05-LabRG01** entry.
4.   Click **Delete**.
5.   On the **Are you sure you want to delete "10979D05-LabRG01"** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, type **10979D05-LabRG01** and click **Delete**.
6.   Click **Microsoft Azure**.
7.   On dashboard of the Azure portal, right-click the labVNet1 tile and click **Unpin from dashboard**.
8.   On dashboard of the Azure portal, right-click the labVNet2 tile and click **Unpin from dashboard**.
9.   Close Microsoft Edge.

When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have deployed two Azure virtual machines into two existing Azure virtual network by using the Azure portal and verify direct network connectivity between them.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
