# Module 5: Creating and configuring virtual networks
# Lab: Create a virtual network
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum Corporation plans to deploy a number of Azure virtual machines that will need direct network connectivity. You need to create a virtual network to allow for direct communication between them.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Create a virtual network.
-   Test connectivity in a virtual network.
>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab Setup
  
Estimated Time: 30 minutes

Virtual machine:  **10979C-MIA-CL1**

User name:  **Admin**

Password:  **Pa$$w0rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available VM environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.
2.   In Hyper-V Manager, click  **10979C-MIA-CL1**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
3.   In the  **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. 
4.   Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  -   User name:  **Admin**
  -   Password:  **Pa$$w0rd**

5.   You also need to start  **MSL-TMG1** for Internet access.


## Exercise 1: Creating a virtual network
  
### Scenario
  
You start by creating a new virtual network by using the Azure portal.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create a virtual network by using Azure Portal


#### Task 1: Create a virtual network by using Azure Portal
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer, go to  **http://portal.azure.com**, and then, when prompted, sign in to the Azure portal as the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   From the Azure portal, create a new virtual network by using the following settings:
  -   Name:  **labVNet**

  -   Address space:  **10.0.0.0/20**

  -   Subnet name:  **Subnet1**

  -   Subnet address range:  **10.0.0.0/24**

  -   Subscription:  _Your Azure subscription_

  -   Resource group:  **Create new**

  -   New resource group name:  **labVNetRG**

  -   Location: Azure data center closest to the location of your classroom

  -   Pin to dashboard: Select the check box.
    >  **Note:** Ignore any messages about overlapping address spaces that might appear when you type the value in the **Address space** text box.


3.   Leave Internet Explorer with the Azure portal interface open. You will use it in the next exercise of this lab.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created a new Azure virtual network by using the Azure portal.


## Exercise 2: Verifying virtual network functionality
  
### Scenario
  
After creating the Azure virtual network, you want to deploy two virtual machines into it and ensure that they can communicate directly by using their private IP addresses.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Deploy Azure virtual machines into an existing virtual network
2.   Test Virtual network connectivity
3.   Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Deploy Azure virtual machines into an existing virtual network
  
1.   From the Azure portal, create a new virtual machine by choosing the  **Windows Server 2012 R2Datacenter** image in the Azure Marketplace and by using the **Resource Manager** deployment model with the following settings:
  -   Name:  **labvnetvm1**

  -   User name:  **Student**

  -   Password:  **Pa$$w0rd1234**

  -   Subscription:  _your Azure subscription_

  -   Resource group:  **labVnetRG**

  -   Location: The Azure data center closest to the classroom location

  -   Size:  **D1 Standard**

  -   Disk type:  **Standard**

  -   Storage account: Accept the default value (this will create a new storage account).

  -   Virtual network:  **labVNet**

  -   Subnet:  **Subnet1 (10.0.0.0/24)**

  -   Public IP address:  **(new) labvnetvm1**

  -   Network security group:  **(new) labvnetvm1**

  -   Extensions:  **No extensions**

  -   Diagnostics:  **Disabled**

  -   Availability set: None  Note the  **Deployment started** message in the notification area at the top of the page and proceed directly to the next step without waiting for the deployment to complete.

2.   From the Azure portal, create another virtual machine by choosing the  **Windows Server 2012 R2Datacenter** image in the Azure Marketplace and by using the **Resource Manager** deployment model with the following settings:
  -   Name:  **labvnetvm2**

  -   User name:  **Student**

  -   Password:  **Pa$$w0rd1234**

  -   Subscription:  _your Azure subscription_

  -   Resource group:  **labVnetRG**

  -   Location:  _Azure data center closest to the classroom location_

  -   Size:  **D1 Standard**

  -   Disk type:  **Standard**

  -   Storage account:  _accept the default value_

  -   Virtual network:  **labVNet**

  -   Subnet:  **Subnet1 (10.0.0.0/24)**

  -   Public IP address:  **(new) labvnetvm2**

  -   Network security group:  **(new) labvnetvm2**

  -   Extensions:  **No extensions**

  -   Diagnostics:  **Disabled**

  -   Availability set: None


Note the  **Deployment started** message in the notification area at the top of the page and wait for both deployments to complete before proceeding to the next task. Leave Internet Explorer with the Azure portal interface open.


#### Task 2: Test Virtual network connectivity
  
1.   In Internet Explorer, go to the Azure portal, and then in the  **Hub** menu, click **Virtual machines.**
2.   Go to the  **Properties** blade of the **labvnetvm2** virtual machine.
3.   On the  **Properties** blade, identify the private IP address of **labvnetvm2**.
4.   In the Azure portal, go to the  **labvnetvm1** blade of the **labvnetvm1** virtual machine.
5.   From the  **labvnetvm1** blade, start an RDP session to **labvnetvm1**.
6.   In the  **Windows Security** dialog box specify the following details, and then click **OK**:
  -   User name:  **Student**

  -   Password:  **Pa$$w0rd1234**

7.   In the RDP session to the  **labvnetvm1** virtual machine, right-click the Windows logo in the lower-left corner, and then click **Command Prompt (Admin)**. 
8.   In the  **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following command (where 10.0.0. _x_ is the private IP address of **labvnetvm2**).
  ```
  mstsc /admin /h:768 /w:1024 /v:10.0.0.x
  ```
9.   When prompted for credentials, in the  **Windows Security** dialog box specify the following:
  -   User name:  **Student**

  -   Password:  **Pa$$w0rd1234**

10.   Verify that the connection is successfully established, and then close the Remote Desktop session to  **labvnetvm1**.
11.   Shut down both virtual machines from the Azure portal.
12.   Close all open windows on MIA-CL1.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module
  
When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have:Deployed two Azure virtual machines into an existing Azure virtual network by using the Azure portal.Verify direct network connectivity between the two virtual machines on the same Azure virtual network.



**Question** 
Can you move virtual machines that you created in the lab to a different virtual network?

**Question** 
Will you be able to successfully ping the two virtual machines on the virtual network?


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  