# Lab Answer Key:  Module 4: Web Apps and cloud services
# Lab: Web Apps and cloud services
  
## Exercise 1: Creating and configuring a WordPress web app
  
#### Task 1: Create a web app
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the **Hub** vertical menu, on the left side of the portal page, click **Create a resource**.
3.   On the **New** blade, in the **Search the marketplace** box, type **WordPress**, and then press Enter.
4.   On the **Everything** blade, in the list of results, click **WordPress** from **WordPress**.
5.   On the **WordPress** blade, click **Create**.
6.   On the **WordPress** blade, specify the following settings:

  -   App name: _A unique name consisting of letters, digits, and hyphens_

  -   Subscription: _Your Azure subscription_

  -   Resource Group: _Ensure that the **Create new** option is selected, and then type in **10979D04-LabRG01**_.

7.   In the **Database Provider** drop-down list, select **MySQL in App**.
7.   Click **App Service plan/Location**.
8.   On the **App Service plan** blade, click **Create New**.
9.   On the **New App Service plan** blade, in the **App Service plan** text box, type **10979D04-SP1**.
10.   In the **Location** drop-down list, select the Azure region that is closest to your classroom location and that is available in your Azure subscription.
11.   Ensure that **S1 Standard** is listed as the **Pricing tier**, and then click **OK**.
12.   Ensure that **Application Insights** setting is set to **Off**.
13.   Select the **Pin to dashboard** check box, and then click **Create**.
    > **Note:** Wait until the web app is created, which might take a couple of minutes.

14.   After it is created, the WordPress web app blade will open automatically in the Azure portal interface.


#### Task 2: Install WordPress
  
1.   On the WordPress web app blade, click the link underneath the **URL** label. This will automatically open a new tab in Microsoft Edge displaying your new website.
2.   On the WordPress website, in the languages list, click **English (United States)**, and then click **Continue**. 
3.   On the Welcome page, complete the **Information needed** section with the following:

  -   Site Title: **Adatum_Blog_######** (_where **######** is a unique number_)

  -   Username: _The email address of the Microsoft account associated with your Azure subscription_

  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd0401**

  -   Your E-mail: _The email address of the Microsoft account associated with your Azure subscription_

  -   Leave the **Search Engine Visibility** with its default setting.


4.   Click **Install WordPress**. 
5.   Wait for the installation to complete.
> **Note:** If your connection to the web app times out, refresh the Microsoft Edge window.


#### Task 3: Create a blog post
  
1.   In Microsoft Edge, on the WordPress web app webpage, click **Log in** and in the **Username or Email** box, type the email address of the Microsoft account associated with your Azure subscription.
2.   In the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd0401**.
3.   Select the **Remember Me** check box, and then click **Log In**.
    > **Note:** If prompted by Microsoft Edge to store the password for the website, click **No**.

4.   On the **Dashboard** page, click **Write your first blog post**.
5.   On the **Add New Post** page, in the text box below **Add New Post**, type **Welcome to the Adatum blog**
6.   In the main text box, type **Welcome to the Adatum blog**.
7.   Click **Publish**.
8.   Click **View Post**. Your new post appears. 
9.   Close the Microsoft Edge tab displaying the WordPress interface, and then return to the Azure portal tab.
10.   Close Microsoft Edge.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created and configured an Azure web app to support WordPress blogs. 


## Exercise 2: Creating a cloud service
  
#### Task 1: Create a cloud service
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the **Hub** vertical menu on the left side of the portal page, click **Create a resource**.
3.   On the **New** blade, click **Compute**.
4.   On the **Featured** blade, click **Cloud service**.
5.   On the **Cloud service (classic)** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **Create**:
  -   DNS name: _A unique name of the cloud service consisting of a combination of letters, digits, and hyphens_

  -   Subscription: _The name of your subscription_

  -   Resource group: _Ensure that **Create new** is selected, and then type **10979D04-LabRG02** in the text box_.

  -   Location: _The Azure region that is closest to the classroom location and that is available in your subscription_

  -   Package: _Leave with the default setting_ 

  -   Certificates: _Leave with the default setting_

  -   Pin to dashboard: _Enable the check box_

6.   Wait until the cloud service is created. This should take only a few seconds. After the deployment is completed, the Azure portal will automatically open the cloud service blade.


#### Task 2: Deploy a cloud service
  > **Note:** To proceed with deployment of the cloud service, you first need to create an Azure storage account in the same Azure region as the cloud service.

1.   In the **Hub** vertical menu on the left side of the portal page, click **Create a resource**. 
2.   On the **New** blade, click **Storage**.
3.   On the **Storage** blade, click **Storage account - blob, file, table, queue**.
4.   On the **Create storage account** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **Create**:
  -   Name: _A unique name consisting of a combination of between 3 and 24 lowercase letters and digits_

  -   Deployment model: **Resource Manager**

  -   Account kind: **Storage (general purpose v1)**
  
  -   Performance: **Standard**

  -   Replication: **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**

  -   Secure transfer required: **Disabled**

  -   Subscription: _Your Azure subscription_

  -   Resource group: **Use existing** **10979D04-LabRG02**

  -   Location: _The same Azure region you chose for the cloud service_

  -   Virtual networks (Preview): **Disabled**
  
  -   Pin to dashboard: _Ensure that the check box is not selected_

5.   Wait until the storage account is provisioned.
6.   In the upper left corner of the portal window, click **Microsoft Azure**.
7.   On dashboard, click the tile representing the cloud service that you created earlier.
8.   On the cloud service blade of the newly created cloud service, ensure that **Production** appears in the toolbar, and then click **Upload**.
9.   On the **Upload a package** blade, in the **Deployment label** text box, type **Lab deployment**.
10.   Ensure that **Package/configuration location** is set to **from local**.
11.   Click **Storage account**. 
12.   On the **Choose storage account** blade, click the newly created storage account.
13.   Click the folder icon next to the **Upload a package (.cspkg, .zip)** text box.
14.   In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, browse to **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod04** folder, select the **AdatumAds.cspkg** file, and then click **Open**. Wait for the updload to complete.
15.   Click the folder icon next to the **Upload a configuration (.cscfg)** text box.
16.   In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, browse to **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod04** folder, select the **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg** file, and then click **Open**. Wait for the upload to complete.
17.   Select the **Deploy even if one or more roles contain a single instance** check box.
18.   Ensure that the **Start deployment** check box is selected.
19.   Click **OK**.
> **Note:** Wait for the deployment to complete before you proceed with the remainder of this lab. You can monitor the progress of deployment by checking the status column in the **Roles and instances** lens on the cloud service blade in the Azure portal. Wait for the status to change to the Running state.


#### Task 3: Connect to the web app hosted by a cloud service
  
1.   In the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure portal interface, on the blade of the newly deployed cloud service, click the link directly underneath the **Site URL** label. This will automatically open a new Microsoft Edge tab displaying the A. Datum Ads webpage.
    > **Note:** You might need to refresh the Microsoft Edge window for the **Site URL** link to appear. 
    > **Note:** The app is for demonstration purposes and is not completely functional.

2.   Close Microsoft Edge

#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module

1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the Azure Portal, in the Hub menu, click **Resource groups**.
3.   On the **Resource groups** blade, click the ellipsis (...) on the right hand side of the **10979D04-LabRG01** entry.
4.   Click **Delete**.
5.   On the **Are you sure you want to delete "10979D04-LabRG01"** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, type **10979D04-LabRG01** and click **Delete**.
6.   Scroll back to the **Resource groups** blade.
7.   On the **Resource groups** blade, click the ellipsis (...) on the right hand side of the **10979D04-LabRG02** entry.
8.   Click **Delete**.
9.   On the **Are you sure you want to delete "10979D04-LabRG02"** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, type **10979D04-LabRG02** and click **Delete**.
10.   Click **Microsoft Azure**.
11.   On dashboard of the Azure portal, right-click the tile of the web app you created in the first exercise of this module and click **Unpin from dashboard**.
12.   On dashboard of the Azure portal, right-click the tile of the cloud service you created in second first exercise of this module and click **Unpin from dashboard**.
13.   Close Microsoft Edge.

When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created, deployed, and configured an Azure cloud service.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
