# Module 8: Creating and managing Azure AD
# Lab: Create and manage Azure Active Directory tenants
  
### Scenario
  
Now that you have deployed several services for Azure, you must secure access to them by provisioning Azure AD user accounts for employees of A. Datum Corporation. The long-term plan is to synchronize existing on-premises AD DS user accounts with the Azure AD Default Directory tenant associated with your Azure subscription. However, you first should test Azure AD functionality by creating and deleting Azure AD user accounts directly in the Default Directory tenant. You should also test RBAC by granting subscription-wide permissions to one of these accounts.

You will also create a new Azure AD tenant to be used for further testing of Azure AD functionality, and will assign a custom DNS domain name to it.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Create a user in an Azure Active Directory tenant.
-   Assign to the new Azure AD user the owner role in the Azure subscription.
-   Create a new Azure AD tenant.
-   Create a custom DNS domain name for the Azure AD tenant.
> **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab Setup
  
Estimated Time: **30 minutes**

Virtual machine: **10979D-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Admin**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available VM environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start **Hyper-V Manager**.
2.   In Hyper-V Manager, click **10979D-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
3.   In the **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. 
4.   Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  -   User name: **Admin**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

5.   You also need to start **MSL-TMG1** for Internet access.


## Exercise 1: Create users in Azure AD
  
### Scenario
  
To test Azure AD functionality, you must create test user accounts, configure one of them as a Global Admin, and grant the other full permissions to your Azure subscription using the Azure portal.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create Azure AD users in the Azure AD Default Directory of an Azure subscription
2.   Assign the owner role to an Azure AD user 
3.   Sign in as new users to the Azure Portal
4.   Delete one of the new Azure AD users


#### Task 1: Create Azure AD users in the Azure AD Default Directory of an Azure subscription
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the Azure AD tenant associated with your subscription.
3.   Note the domain name of your Azure AD tenant.
4    In the Azure portal, create the following Azure AD user:

  -   Name: **deanna**

  -   User name: **deanna@­_your Azure AD tenant domain name_**
      _where **_your Azure AD tenant domain name_** is the domain name you identified in step 3 of this task

  -   First name: **Deanna**

  -   Last name: **Ball**

  -   Directory role: **User**.

5.   Note the autogenerated password of the new user. 
6.   In the Azure portal, create the following Azure AD user:

  -   Name: **kari**

  -   User name: **kari@­_your Azure AD tenant domain name_**
      _where **_your Azure AD tenant domain name_** is the domain name you identified in step 3 of this task

  -   First name: **Kari**

  -   Last name: **Tran**

  -   Directory role: **Global administrator**.

7.   Note the autogenerated password of the new user. 
8.   Leave the Microsoft Edge window open. 


#### Task 2: Assign the owner role to an Azure AD user
  
1.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the blade of your Azure subscription.
2.   From the Azure subscription blade, configure the Azure AD user **Deanna Ball** as the owner of the subscription.


#### Task 3: Sign in as new users to the Azure Portal
  
1.   Open a new Microsoft Edge InPrivate session.
2.   Browse to https://portal.azure.com
3.   Sign in by using the **deanna** Azure AD user account.
4.   When prompted, change the user's password to **Pa55w.rd**.
5.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the **Subscriptions** blade.
6.   Click your subscription, and note that you can view all details of the subscription, including **Breakdown of current cost**. Note that you can also manage permissions by using RBAC.
7.   Sign out from the Azure portal.
8.   Sign back in by using the **kari** Azure AD user account.
9.   When prompted, change the user's password to **Pa55w.rd**
10.   In the Azure portal interface, navigate to the **Subscriptions** blade.
11.   In the **Subscriptions** blade, note note that no subscriptions are listed.
    > **Note:** The Global administrator role grants permissions only to Azure AD tenant objects, not to Azure subscription resources.
12.   Sign out from Azure portal, and close the Microsoft Edge InPrivate session window.


#### Task 4: Delete the new Azure AD user
  
1.   Switch back to the Azure portal. 
2.   In the Azure portal, navigate to the Azure AD tenant associated with your subscription.
3.   Delete the **Kari Tran** user account from the Azure AD tenant. 
4.   Leave the Azure portal open.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have used the Azure portal to create Azure AD user accounts, configure one of them as a Global Admin, and grant the other full permissions to your Azure subscription.


## Exercise 2: Create a new Azure AD Tenant and a custom DNS domain
  
### Scenario
  
To prepare for testing user management in Azure AD, you must create a new Azure AD tenant using the Azure portal.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create a new Azure AD tenant
2.   Create a custom domain in the new Azure AD tenant
3.   Prepare for the end of the course


#### Task 1: Create a new Azure AD tenant
  
1.   From the Azure portal, create a new Azure AD tenant with the following settings:

  -   Organization name: **AdatumLab**

  -   Initial domain name: _any unique valid DNS domain name_

  -   Country or region: **United States**

2.   Wait until the new Azure Active Directory tenant is provisioned.


#### Task 2: Create a custom domain in the new Azure AD tenant
  
1.   In the Azure portal, switch to the new Azure AD tenant.
2.   From the Azure portal, navigate to Azure Active Directory blade.
3.   From the Azure Active Directory blade, add a custom domain called **adatumlab.com** to the newly created **AdatumLab** Azure AD tenant.
4.   Identify the DNS records that you need to create to verify the newly created domain. Note that the domain appears with **Unverified** status because you have not completed the verification steps.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the end of the course
  
When you finish the lab, revert all virtual machines to their initial state by performing the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.
2.   In the Virtual Machines list, right-click **10979D-MIA-CL1**, and then click **Revert**.
3.   In the Revert Virtual Machine dialog box, click **Revert**.
4.   Repeat steps 2 and 3 for MSL-TMG1.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created a new Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant by using the Azure portal.



**Question** 
What role should you assign to a user account in the Azure AD directory instance to enable the user to fully manage all of its objects?

You should assign the Global administrator role to the user account.


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
