# Module 4: Web Apps and cloud services
# Lab: Web Apps and cloud services
  
### Scenario
  
You were asked to deploy a blog for the A. Datum public relations team and have decided to use the Web Apps feature of Azure App Service for this purpose. Your internal development team has also developed its first implementation of an Azure cloud service to replace a public-facing website currently hosted on the premises. You want to test its deployment to Azure.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Create and configure a WordPress web app from the Azure Marketplace.
-   Create and deploy a cloud service.
> **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab Setup
  
Estimated Time: **30 minutes**

Virtual machine: **10979D-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Admin**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

.

For this lab, you need to use the available VM environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start **Hyper-V Manager**.
2.   In Hyper-V Manager, click **10979D-MIA-CL1**, and then in the **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
3.   In the **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. 
4.   Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  -   User name: **Admin**
  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

5.   You also need to start **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** for Internet access.


## Exercise 1: Creating and configuring a WordPress web app
  
### Scenario
  
Your users have suggested that they would like to post blog articles to a corporate website. You have decided to host this website on Azure. In this exercise, you will create a website to host WordPress blogs and then test the website by posting articles to the site. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create a web app
2.   Install WordPress
3.   Create a blog post


#### Task 1: Create a web app
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, when prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   From the Azure portal, create a new **WordPress** website based on the Azure Marketplace offering from **WordPress**, and then specify the following configuration:
  -   App name: _A unique name consisting of letters, digits, and hyphens_

  -   Subscription: _Your Azure subscription_

  -   Resource Group: **10979D04-LabRG01**

    i.   App Service plan: **10979D04-SP1**.

    ii.   Location: _The Azure region that is closest to your classroom location and that is available in your Azure subscription_

    iii.   Pricing tier: **D1 Shared**

  -   Database Provider: **ClearDB**
  
  -   Database

    i.   Database Name: **10979d04_db1**

    ii.   Database Type: **Shared**

    iii.   Location: _The same location you chose for the App Service plan_

    iv.   Pricing Tier: **Mercury**

  -   Legal Terms (ClearDB): **Purchase**

  -   Application Insights: **Off**

  -   Pin to dashboard: Enabled
    > **Note:** Wait until the web app is created, which might take a couple of minutes.

3.   After it is created, the WordPress web app will open automatically in the Azure portal interface.


#### Task 2: Install WordPress
  
1.   On the WordPress web app blade, click the link underneath the **URL** label. This will automatically open a new tab in Microsoft Edge displaying your new website.
2.   On the WordPress website, set the language to **English (United States)**. 
3.   On the Welcome page, complete the **Information needed** section with the following values:

  -   Site Title: **Adatum_Blog_######** (_where **######** is a unique number_)

  -   Username: _The email address of the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure subscription_

  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd0401**

  -   Your E-mail: _The email address of the Microsoft account associated with your Azure subscription_

  -   Leave the **Search Engine Visibility** with its default setting.

4.   Click **Install WordPress**.
5.   Wait for the installation to complete.
> **Note:** If your connection to the web app times out, refresh the Microsoft Edge window.


#### Task 3: Create a blog post
  
1.   In Microsoft Edge, on the WordPress web app webpage, log in with the following credentials:

  -   Username: _The email address of the Microsoft account associated with your Azure subscription_

  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd0401**

  -   Select the **Remember Me** check box.

  > **Note:** If prompted by Microsoft Edge to store the password for the website, click **No**.

2.   From the WordPress dashboard, create a new post with the following settings:

  -   Title: **Welcome to the Adatum blog**

  -   Main text: **Welcome to the Adatum blog**

3.  Click **Publish** to publish the new post.
4.   View the new post.
5.   Close Microsoft Edge.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created and configured an Azure website to support WordPress blogs. 


## Exercise 2: Creating a cloud service
  
### Scenario
  
You need to create an Azure cloud service. You will use the Azure portal to complete this task. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create a cloud service
2.   Deploy a cloud service
3.   Connect to the web app hosted by a cloud service
4.   Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Create a cloud service
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   From the Azure portal, create a new cloud service with the following settings:

  -   DNS name: _A unique name of the cloud service consisting of a combination of letters, digits, and hyphens_

  -   Subscription: _The name of your subscription_

  -   Resource group: _A new resource group named **10979D02-LabRG02**_

  -   Location: _The Azure region that is closest to the classroom location and that is available in your subscription_

  -   Package: _Leave with the default setting_

  -   Certificates: _Leave with the default setting_

  -   Pin to dashboard: _Enable the checkbox_

3.   Wait until the cloud service is created. This should take only a few seconds. After the deployment is completed, the Azure portal will automatically open the cloud service blade.


#### Task 2: Deploy a cloud service
  > **Note:** To proceed with the deployment of the cloud service, you first need to create an Azure Storage account in the same Azure region as the cloud service.

1.   From the Azure portal, create a new Azure Storage account with the following settings

  -   Name: Name: _A unique name consisting of a combination of between 3 and 24 lowercase letters and digits_

  -   Deployment model: **Resource Manager**

  -   Performance: **Standard**

  -   Replication: **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**

  -   Storage service encryption (blobs and files): **Disabled**

  -   Secure transfer required: **Disabled**

  -   Subscription: _Your Azure subscription_

  -   Resource group: **Use existing** **10979D02-LabRG02**

  -   Location: _The same Azure region you chose for the cloud service_

  -   Pin to dashboard: _Ensure that the check box is not selected_

2.   Wait until the storage account is provisioned.
3.   From the Azure portal, deploy a package and configuration files to the production slot of a newly created cloud service by using the following settings: 

  -   Deployment label: **Lab deployment**

  -   Storage account: _The newly created storage account_

  -   Package: **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod04\\AdatumAds.cspkg**

  -   Configuration: **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod04\\ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg**

  -   Enable the **Deploy even if one or more roles contain a single instance** checkbox.

  -   Enable the **Start deployment** check box.

> **Note:** Wait for the deployment to complete before you proceed with the remainder of this lab. You can monitor the progress of deployment by checking the status column in the **Roles and instances** lens on the cloud service blade in the Azure portal. Wait for the status to change to the Running state.


#### Task 3: Connect to the web app hosted by a cloud service
  
1.   In the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure portal interface, on the blade of the newly deployed cloud service, click the link directly underneath the **Site URL** label. This will automatically open a new Microsoft Edge tab displaying the A. Datum Ads webpage.
    > **Note:** You might need to refresh the Microsoft Edge window for the **Site URL** link to appear. 
    > **Note:** The app is for demonstration purposes and is not completely functional.

2.   Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   From the Azure Portal, delete the **10979D04-LabRG01** and **10979D04-LabRG02** resource groups.
3.   Unpin the web app tile and the cloud service tile from the Azure portal dashboard.
4.   Close Microsoft Edge.

When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created, deployed, and configured an Azure cloud service.


**Question** 
In the lab, you created an Azure cloud service. Which two files did you require to create the cloud service?


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
