# Lab Answer Key:  Module 7: Microsoft Azure Databases
# Lab: Creating a SQL Database in Azure
  
## Exercise 1: Create a new Azure SQL database in Azure and configure SQL Server firewall rules
  
#### Task 1: Create a new Azure SQL database by using the Azure Portal
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the **Hub** menu on the left, click **+ Create a resource**. 
3.   On the **New** blade, click **Databases**.
4.   On the **Databases** blade, click **SQL Database**.
5.   On the **SQL database** blade, specify the following settings and click **Select**:

  -   Database name: **10979D07labDB1**

  -   Subscription: _Your Azure subscription_

  -   Resource group: **Create new** **10979D07-LabRG01**

  -   Select source: **Blank database**

6.   In the **Server** section, click **Configure required settings**.
7.   On the **Server** blade, ensure that **Create a new server** is selected.
8.   On the **New server** blade, enter the following settings, and then click **Select**:

  -   Server name: _Any valid unique name_

  -   Server admin login: **Student**

  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

  -   Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd**

  -   Location: _The Azure region that is closest to the classroom location and that is available in your subscription_

9.   On the **SQL database** blade, ensure that **Not now** is selected in the section labeled **Want to use SQL elastic pool?**.
10.   Click **Pricing tier**. 
11.   On the **Configure performance** blade, click **Basic** and click **Apply**.
12.   Leave the **Collation** set to **SQL_Latin1_General_CP1_CI_AS**, enable the **Pin to dashboard** checkbox and click **Create**.
13.   Wait for the database to be provisioned. 


#### Task 2: Configure an Azure SQL Server firewall rule by using Azure Portal
  
1.   From the Azure portal, click the **10979D07labDB1** tile on the dashboard.
2.   On the **10979D07labDB1** blade, click **Set server firewall**. 
3.   On the **Firewall settings** blade, click **Add client IP**.
4.   In the **START IP** column of the newly added firewall rule, replace the last two numbers separated by a period with **0.0**. 
5.   In the **END IP** column of the newly added firewall rule, replace the last two numbers separated by a period with **255.255**.
6.   Click **Save**.
> **Note:** It might take up to five minutes for this change to take effect.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created a Microsoft Azure SQL database named 10979D07labDB1 on a new server with a name of your choice. You will have also configured Microsoft SQL Server firewall rules in Azure, which allow connectivity from your on-premises management tools and applications to the newly created SQL database in Azure.


## Exercise 2: Manage content of an Azure SQL database by using SQL Server Management Studio
  
#### Task 1: Add a table to an Azure SQL Database by using SQL Server Management Studio
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start SQL Server Management Studio by clicking its shortcut in the taskbar.
2.   In the **Connect to Server** dialog box, specify the following settings (replace **_server_name_** with the unique name you specified when creating your SQL Database server in the previous exercise), and then click **Connect**:

  -   Server type: **Database Engine**

  -   Server name: ** _server_name_.database.windows.net**

  -   Authentication: **SQL Server Authentication**

  -   Login: **Student**

  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd**

3.   If the connection attempt fails indicating that the client IP address is not allowed to access the server, note the IP address in the error message. Switch to Microsoft Edge and, on the **Firewall settings** blade, create a new rule by specifying the following settings and then clicking **Save**:

  -   RULE NAME: **ClientIPAddressMod7**

  -   START IP: _IP address that you noted in the error message_

  -   END IP: _IP address that you noted in the error message_

    > **Note:** Note that it might take up to five minutes for this change to take effect.

4.   In SQL Server Management Studio, in Object Explorer, under the server name, expand the **Databases** folder and verify that the list of subnodes includes the **10979D07labDB1** database.
5.   Right-click the **10979D07labDB1** database node, and then click **New Query** in the context menu.
6.   In the new query pane, type in the following Transact-SQL statement, and then click **Execute**:
  ```
  CREATE TABLE dbo.testTable
(
 id integer identity primary key,
 dataval nvarchar(50)
);
GO
  ```
7.   In Object Explorer, expand the **10979D07labDB1** node, expand the **Tables** folder and verify that **dbo.testTable** is listed (if not, right-click **Tables**, and then click **Refresh**).
8.   Leave the SQL Server Management Studio open for the next task


#### Task 2: Add data to a table of a SQL database in Azure by using SQL Server Management Studio.
  
1.   Click **New Query**, enter the following Transact-SQL code in the new query pane, and then click **Execute** to insert 100 rows containing automatically generated globally unique identifier (GUID) values into the table:
  ```
  INSERT INTO dbo.testTable
VALUES
(newid());
GO 100
  ```
2.   Leave the SQL Server Management Studio open for the next task.


#### Task 3: Query a table of an Azure SQL database in Azure by using SQL Server Management Studio
  
1.   In Object Explorer, right-click **dbo.testTable**, in the context menu click **Script Table as**, click **SELECT To**, and then click **New Query Editor Window**. This generates a Transact-SQL query that retrieves data from the table.
2.   On the toolbar, in the **Available Databases** list, ensure that **10979D07labDB1** is selected, and then click **Execute**.
3.   View the query results and verify that a table of **id** and **dataval** values is returned.
4.   Close SQL Server Management Studio and Microsoft Edge. Do not save changes when prompted.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
 
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the Azure Portal, in the Hub menu, click **Resource groups**.
3.   On the **Resource groups** blade, click the ellipsis (...) on the right hand side of the **10979D07-LabRG01** entry.
4.   Click **Delete**.
5.   On the **Are you sure you want to delete "10979D07-LabRG01"** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, type **10979D07-LabRG01** and click **Delete**.
6.   Click **Microsoft Azure**.
7.   On dashboard of the Azure portal, right-click the **10979D07labDB1** tile and click **Unpin from dashboard**.
8.   Close Microsoft Edge.
 
When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created a test table in the SQL database in Azure named 10979D07labDB1 on an existing SQL Server in Azure with a name of your choice, populated it with sample data, and queried its content.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
