# Lab Answer Key:  Module 8: Creating and managing Azure AD
# Lab: Create and manage Azure Active Directory tenants
  
## Exercise 1: Create users in Azure AD
  
#### Task 1: Create Azure AD users in the Azure AD Default Directory of an Azure subscription
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the **Hub** menu, click **Azure Active Directory**. 
3.   Click **Custom domain names**.
4.   Note the current domain name of your Azure AD tenant.
5.   Click **Users and groups**.
6.   Click **All users**.
7.   Click **+ New user**
8.   On the **User** blade, specify the following settings.

  -   Name: **deanna**

  -   User name: **deanna@­_your Azure AD tenant domain name_**
      _where **_your Azure AD tenant domain name_** is the domain name you identified in step 4 of this task

9.   Click **Profile**. 
10.   On the **Profile** blade, specify the following settings and click **OK**:

  -   First name: **Deanna**

  -   Last name: **Ball**

11.   Ensure that **Directory role** is set to **User**.
12.   Enable the **Show password** checkbox and make a note of the autogenerated password.
13.   Click **Create**.
14.   Click **+ New user**
15.   On the **User** blade, specify the following settings.

  -   Name: **kari**

  -   User name: **kari@­_your Azure AD tenant domain name_**
      _where **_your Azure AD tenant domain name_** is the domain name you identified in step 4 of this task

16.   Click **Profile**. 
17.   On the **Profile** blade, specify the following settings and click **OK**:

  -   First name: **Kari**

  -   Last name: **Tran**

18.   Click **Directory role**.
19.   On the **Directory role** blade, click **Global administrator** and click **Ok**.
20.   Enable the **Show password** checkbox and make a note of the autogenerated password.
21.   Click **Create**.
22.   Leave the Microsoft Edge window open. 


#### Task 2: Assign the owner role to an Azure AD user
  
1.   In the Azure portal, in the **Hub** menu, click **More services**.
2.   In the list of resources, click **Subscriptions**.
3.   On the **Subscriptions** blade, click your subscription.
4.   On the blade showing your subscription, click **Access control (IAM)**.
5.   On the Access control (IAM) blade, click **+Add**
6.   On the **Add permissions** blade, in the **Role** drop-down list, click **Owner**.
7.   In the list of Azure Active Directory users, click **deanna**. 
8.   Click **Save**.


#### Task 3: Sign in as new users to the Azure Portal
  
1.   In the Microsoft Edge window, click the ellipsis (**...**) in the upper right corner and click **New InPrivate window**.
2.   In the InPrivate window, browse to https://portal.azure.com
3.   When prompted to sign in, in the **Email or phone** text box, enter the user name of the **deanna** Azure AD user account, including the **@** symbol followed by the domain name you identified in step 4 of the first task of this exercise.
4.   In the **Password** text box, enter the password you noted while creating the **deanna** user account.
5.   Click **Sign in**.
6.   You will be redirected to the **Update your password** page. Enter the following details and then click **Update password and sign in**:

  -   Current password: The same password you just entered.

  -   New password: a new password

  -   Confirm password: the new password you just entered
  
   > **Note:** If you receive the message **We've seen that password too many times before. Choose something harder to guess**, you'll need to modify the password until it is unique enough to be accepted.

7.   You will be redirected to the Azure portal interface. 
8.   If prompted, in the Azure portal, in the **Welcome to Microsoft Azure** dialog box, click **Maybe later**. 
9.   In the Azure portal, in the **Hub** menu, click **More services**.
10.   In the list of resources, and then click **Subscriptions**.
11.   On the **Subscriptions** blade, click your subscription.
12.   Note that you can view all details of the subscription, including **Breakdown of current cost**.
13.   Click **Access control (IAM)**.  Note that you have full access to the **Access control (IAM)** blade.
14.   Click the user name in the upper-right corner of the portal interface and then, in the drop-down menu, click **Sign out**.
15.   On the Microsoft Azure page, click **Use another account**.
16.   When prompted to authenticate, in the Email or phone text box, enter the full user name of the **kari** Azure AD user account, including the **@** symbol followed by the domain name you identified in step 4 of the first task of this exercise.
17.   In the Password text box, enter the password you noted when creating the kari user account and then click **Sign in**.
18.   You will be redirected to the **Update your password page**. Enter the following details and then click **Update password and sign in**:

  -   Current password: The same password you just typed in

  -   New password: a new password

  -   Confirm password: the new password you just entered 
  
   > **Note:** If you receive the message **We've seen that password too many times before. Choose something harder to guess**, you'll need to modify the password until it is unique enough to be accepted.

19.   If you are prompted **Stay signed in?"** select **No.**
20.   You will be redirected to the Azure portal interface. 
21.   If prompted, in the Azure portal, in the **Welcome to Microsoft Azure** dialog box, click **Maybe later**. 
22.   In the Azure portal interface, in the Hub menu, click **More services**
23.   Scroll down the list of resources, and then click **Subscriptions**.
24.   In the **Subscriptions** blade, note that no subscriptions are listed.

    > **Note:** The Global Admin role grants permissions to Azure AD tenant, not to Azure subscription resources

25.   Click the user name in the upper-right corner and click **Sign out** in the drop-down menu.
26.   Close the Microsoft Edge InPrivate window.


#### Task 4: Delete the new Azure AD user
  
1.   Switch back to the Microsoft Edge window displaying the Azure portal.
2.   In the **Hub** menu, click **Azure Active Directory**. 
3.   Click **Users and groups**.
4.   Click **All users**.
5.   In the list of users, click the checkbox to the left of the entry representing the **kari** user account and click **Delete user**.
6.   When prompted to confirm, click **Yes**. 
7.   Leave the Azure portal open.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have used the Azure portal to create Azure AD user accounts, configure one of them as a Global Admin, and grant the other full permissions to your Azure subscription.


## Exercise 2: Create a new Azure AD Tenant and a custom DNS domain
  
#### Task 1: Create a new Azure AD tenant
  
1.   In the Azure portal, in the **Hub** menu, click **+ New**.
2.   On the **New** blade, click **Security + Identity**.
3.   On the **Security + Identity** blade, click **Azure Active Directory**.
4.   On the **Create directory** blade, specify the following settings and click **Create**:

  -   Organization name: **AdatumLab**

  -   Initial domain name: _any unique valid DNS domain name_

  -   Country or region: **United States**

5.   Wait until the new Azure Active Directory tenant is provisioned.

#### Task 2: Create a custom domain in the new Azure AD tenant
  
1.   In the Azure portal, click your name in the upper right corner and, in the drop-down menu, click the new directory entry. This will reload the Azure portal interface, displaying resources associated with the new tenant. 

    > **Note:** There will be no resources associated with the new Azure AD tenant at this point. This is expected. 
 
2.   In the **Hub** menu, click **Azure Active Directory**.
3.   Click **Custom domain names**.
4.   Click **+ Add custom domain**.
5.   On the **Domain name** blade, type **adatumlab.com** and click **Add Domain**.
6.   On the **adatumlab.com** blade, note that the **RECORD TYPE** switch includes the options: **TXT** and **MX**. In order to use **adatumlab.com**, you would need to create these records in the DNS registrar that hosts the DNS namespace for the **adatumlab.com** domain before you click **Verify**.
7.   Close the **adatumlab.com** blade.
8.   Note that the **adatumlab.com** domain is listed with the **Unverified** status because you have not completed the verification steps.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the end of the course
  
When you finish the lab, revert all virtual machines to their initial state by performing the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.
2.   In the Virtual Machines list, right-click **10979D-MIA-CL1**, and then click **Revert**.
3.   In the Revert Virtual Machine dialog box, click **Revert**.
4.   Repeat steps 2 and 3 for MSL-TMG1.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created a new Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant by using the Azure portal.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
