# Module 8: Creating and managing Azure AD
# Lab: Create and manage Azure Active Directory tenants
  
### Scenario
  
Now that you have deployed several services for Azure, you must secure access to them by provisioning Azure AD user accounts for employees of A. Datum Corporation. The long-term plan is to synchronize existing on-premises AD DS user accounts with the Azure AD Default Directory tenant associated with your Azure subscription. However, you first should test Azure AD functionality by creating and deleting Azure AD user accounts directly in the Default Directory tenant. You should also test RBAC by granting subscription-wide permissions to one of these accounts.

You will also create a new Azure AD tenant to be used for further testing of Azure AD functionality, and will assign a custom DNS domain name to it.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

-   Created a user in an Azure Active Directory tenant.
-   Assigned to the new Azure AD user the owner role in the Azure subscription.
-   Created a new Azure AD tenant.
-   Created a custom DNS domain name for the Azure AD tenant.
>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Azure. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab Setup
  
Estimated Time: 30 minutes

Virtual machine:  **10979C-MIA-CL1**

User name:  **Admin**

Password:  **Pa$$w0rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available VM environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.
2.   In Hyper-V Manager, click  **10979C-MIA-CL1**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.
3.   In the  **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. 
4.   Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  -   User name:  **Admin**
  -   Password:  **Pa$$w0rd**

5.   You also need to start  **MSL-TMG1** for Internet access.


## Exercise 1: Create users in Azure AD
  
### Scenario
  
To test Azure AD functionality, you must create test user accounts, configure one of them as a Global Admin, and grant the other full permissions to your Azure subscription using the Azure portal.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create Azure AD users in the Azure AD Default Directory of an Azure subscription
2.   Assign the owner role to an Azure AD user 
3.   Sign in as new users to the Azure Portal
4.   Delete the new Azure AD user


#### Task 1: Create Azure AD users in the Azure AD Default Directory of an Azure subscription
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, open Internet Explorer and go to https://manage.windowsazure.com.
2.   If you receive a prompt, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the service administrator or a co-administrator of your Azure subscription.
3.   Click ACTIVE DIRECTORY, and then create the following user in the Default Directory:

    a.   USER NAME:  **deanna**

    b.   FIRST NAME:  **Deanna**

    c.   LAST NAME:  **Ball**

    d.   DISPLAY NAME:  **Deanna Ball**

    e.   ROLE:  **User**

    f.   Enable Multi-Factor Authentication: Not selected

4.   Note the value of  **NEW PASSWORD**.
5.   Create the following user in the Adatum directory:

    a.   USER NAME:  **kari**

    b.   FIRST NAME:  **Kari**

    c.   LAST NAME:  **Tran**

    d.   DISPLAY NAME:  **Kari Tran**

    e.   ROLE:  **Global Admin**

    f.   ALTERNATE EMAIL ADDRESS: Type the email address of your Microsoft account that is either the service administrator or a co-administrator of your Azure subscription

    g.   Enable Multi-Factor Authentication: Not selected

6.   Note the value of  **NEW PASSWORD**.
7.   Leave the Internet Explorer window open. You will use it later in this lab.


#### Task 2: Assign the owner role to an Azure AD user
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, open Internet Explorer, and go to https://portal.azure.com.
2.   If you receive a prompt, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the service administrator or a co-administrator of your Azure subscription
3.   In the Azure portal, go to your subscription.
4.   From your subscription blade, configure the Azure AD user  **Deanna Ball** as the owner of the subscription.


#### Task 3: Sign in as new users to the Azure Portal
  
1.   Open a new Internet Explorer InPrivate Browsing session.
2.   Browse to https://portal.azure.com
3.   Sign in by using the  **deanna** Azure AD user account.
4.   In the  **Password** text box, enter the password you noted while creating the **deanna** user account.
5.   If you receive a prompt, change the password to  **Pa$$w0rd**.
6.   In the Azure portal interface, go to the  **Subscriptions** blade.
7.   Click your subscription, and note that you can view all details of the subscription, including  **Breakdown of current charges**. Note that you can also manage permissions by using RBAC.
8.   Sign out from Azure portal.
9.   Sign back in by using the  **kari** Azure AD user account.
10.   In the  **Password** text box, enter the password you noted while creating the **kari** user account.
11.   When prompted, change the password to  **Pa$$w0rd**
12.   In the Azure portal interface, go to the  **Subscriptions** blade.
13.   In the  **Subscriptions** blade, notice the message, **You don't have any subscriptions**.
    >  **Note:** Note that the Global Admin role grants permissions only to Azure AD tenant objects, not to Azure subscription resources.

14.   Sign out from Azure portal, and close the Internet Explorer InPrivate Browsing session window.


#### Task 4: Delete the new Azure AD user
  
1.   Switch back to the Azure classic portal. 
2.   From the Azure classic portal interface, delete the  **Kari Tran** user account from the **Default Directory**.
3.   Go back to the  **active directory** page in the Azure classic portal.
4.   Leave the Azure classic portal open in Internet Explorer.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have used the Azure classic portal to create Azure AD user accounts, configure one of them as a Global Admin, and grant the other full permissions to your Azure subscription.


## Exercise 2: Create a new Azure AD Tenant and a custom DNS domain
  
### Scenario
  
To prepare for testing user management in Azure AD, you must create a new Azure AD tenant using the Azure portal.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.   Create a new Azure AD tenant in an Azure subscription
2.   Create a custom domain in the Default Directory of your Azure subscription
3.   Prepare for the end of the course


#### Task 1: Create a new Azure AD tenant in an Azure subscription
  
1.   From the Azure classic portal, create a new directory within the existing subscription with the following settings:
  -   Directory:  **Create new directory**

  -   Name:  **AdatumLab**

  -   Domain Name: Specify a unique name. A green checkmark appears on the right side of the text box if the name is confirmed.

  -   Country or Region:  **United States**

  -   This is a B2C directory: Ensure that this check box is not selected.



#### Task 2: Create a custom domain in the Default Directory of your Azure subscription
  
1.   Add a custom domain called  **adatumlab.com** to the newly created **AdatumLab** Azure AD tenant.
2.   Identify the DNS records that you need to create to verify the newly created domain. Note that the domain appears with  **Unverified** status because you have not completed the verification steps.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the end of the course
  
When you finish the lab, revert all virtual machines to their initial state by performing the following steps:

1.   On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.
2.   In the Virtual Machines list, right-click  **10979C-MIA-CL1**, and then click  **Revert**.
3.   In the Revert Virtual Machine dialog box, click  **Revert**.
4.   Repeat steps 2 and 3 for MSL-TMG1.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created a new Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant by using the Azure classic portal.



**Question** 
What role should you assign to a user account in the Azure AD directory instance to enable the user to fully manage all of its objects?

You should assign the Global Admin role to the user account.


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  