# Lab Answer Key:  Module 3: Virtual machines in Microsoft Azure
# Lab: Creating a VM in Azure
  
## Exercise 1: Create a VM from the Azure Portal by using an Azure Marketplace image
  
#### Task 1: Select and create a VM
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and then when prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the **Hub** vertical menu on the left side of the portal page, click **New**.
3.   On the **New** blade, click **Compute**.
4.   On the **Compute** blade, click **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter**.
5.   On the **Basics** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:
  -   Name: **10979D03LabVM1**
  
  -   VM Disk type: **HDD** 

  -   User name: **Student**

  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

  -   Subscription: _Your Azure subscription_

  -   Resource group: **Create new**

  -   New resource group: **10979D03-LabRG01**

  -   Location: _Azure region closest to the classroom location that is available in your subscription_

6.   On the **Choose a size** blade, click **View all**.
7.   On the **Choose a size** blade, click **D1_V2 Standard**, and then click **Select**.
8.   On the **Settings** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:
  
  -   Use managed disks: **Yes**

  -   Virtual network: _Accept the default value (this will create a new virtual network)_

  -   Subnet: _Accept the default value (this will create a /24 subnet named **default** within the IP address space of the virtual network)_

  -   Public IP address: **(new) 10979D03LabVM1-ip**

  -   Network security group: **(new) 10979D03LabVM1-nsg**

  -   Extensions: **No extensions**

  -   Availability set: None

  -   Boot Diagnostics: **Disabled**
  
  -   Guest OS Diagnostics: **Disabled**

9.   On the **Summary** blade, note the **Validation passed** message and click **OK**.
10.   Note the **Deployment started** message in the notification area at the top of the page.
11.   Wait for the deployment to complete. 


#### Task 2: Verify VM creation
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure Portal, once the deployment of the 10979D03LabVM1 VM completes, you will be automatically presented with the **10979D03LabVM1** blade. If you are not presented with the **10979D03LabVM1** blade automatically, click the **10979D03LabVM1** tile on the dashboard.
2.   Click **Activity log**. This will automatically display the blade allowing you to search for activities affecting the VM that you or other admins carried out. 
> **Note**: At this point, the list of events is likely to be empty. Activities represent changes to the state of the VM that you or other admins carried out, such as restarting it. 
3.   Click **Overview**.
4.   Click **Resource health**.
5.   Verify that there are no known Azure platform problems affecting this VM. Click **Refresh** if you receive a "Resource health unknown' message.
6.   Close the Resource health blade.

> **Result**: After completing this lab, you should have created a Microsoft Azure virtual machine (VM) from the Azure Portal by using an Azure Marketplace image, as well as review activity logs and resource health of the VM.


## Exercise 2: Verify the functionality of the VM
  
#### Task 1: View the properties of the VM
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure Portal, on the **10979D03LabVM1** blade, click **Overview** .
2.   On the **10979D03LabVM1** blade, review the **Essentials** section. You will notice that the VM has a public IP address, but not a corresponding Domain Name System (DNS) name label. In addition, the **Connect** button will be enabled.
3.   Click **Properties**.
4.   Notice that the VM has also a private IP address and the VM agent with a status of **Ready**.


#### Task 2: Connect to a VM
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure Portal, on the **10979D03LabVM1** blade, click **Overview**.
2.   Click **Connect**.
3.   When prompted whether to save the .rdp file, click **Save**. 
4.   Once the file has been saved, click **Open**.
5.   In the **Remote Desktop Connection** window, click **Connect**.
6.   In the **Windows Security** dialog box, specify the following and click **OK**:

  -   User name: **Student**

  -   Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

7.   In the **Remote Desktop Connection** window, click **Yes**.
8.   Wait until the connection is successfully established.
9.   Minimize the Remote Desktop Connection window.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have viewed properties of an Azure VM from the Azure Portal and connected to an Azure VM by using Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP).



## Exercise 3: Configure storage of a VM
  
#### Task 1: Attach data disks to an Azure VM
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure Portal, ensure that you are viewing the **10979D03LabVM1** blade. 
2.   On the **10979D03LabVM1** blade, click **Disks**.
3.   To attach the first disk, click **+ Add data disk**.
4.   In the **NAME** column, click **No managed disks available** and then, click **Create disk**. 
5.   On the **Create managed disk** blade, specify the following settings and click **Crate**:

  -   Name: **10979D03LabVM1_DataDisk1**

  -   Resource group: **Use existing** **10979D03-LabRG01**

  -   Account type: **Standard_LRS**

  -   Source type: **None (empty disk)**

  -   Size (GB): **128**

6.   Wait until the new disk is provisioned.
7.   On the **10979D03LabVM1 - Disks** blade, in the **HOST CACHING** column, in the row corresponding to the first disk, click **None** and, in the drop-down list, click **Read-only**.
8.   To attach the second disk, click **+ Add data disk**.
9.   In the **NAME** column, in the row corresponding to the second disk, click the drop-down list and then click **Create disk**. 
10.   On the **Create managed disk** blade, specify the following settings and click **Crate**:

  -   Name: **10979D03LabVM1_DataDisk2**

  -   Resource group: **Use existing** **10979D03-LabRG01**

  -   Account type: **Standard (HDD)**

  -   Source type: **None (empty disk)**

  -   Size (GB): **128**

11.   Wait until the new disk is provisioned.
12.   On the **10979D03LabVM1 - Disks** blade, in the **HOST CACHING** column, in the row corresponding to the second disk, click **None** and, in the drop-down list, click **Read-only**.
13.   Click **Save**.


#### Task 2: Create a two-disk volume in the Azure VM that runs Windows
  
1.   On MIA-CL1, switch to the Remote Desktop session window. If prompted, on the Networks pane, click **No**.
2.   In the Remote Desktop session, in the **Server Manager** window, click **File and Storage Services**.
3.   In the **Servers** navigation pane on the left side, click **Storage Pools**.
4.   In the **STORAGE POOLS** pane, click the **TASKS** menu, and then click **New Storage Pool** in the drop-down list box menu. This will open the New Storage Pool Wizard.
5.   On the **Before you begin** page, click **Next**.
6.   On the **Specify a storage pool name and subsystem** page, type **StoragePool1** in the **Name** text box, and then click **Next**.
7.   On **Select physical disks for the storage pool** page select the check boxes next to the entries representing disks you attached in the Azure Portal, and then click **Next**.
8.   On the **Confirm selections** page, click **Create**.
9.   On the **View results** page, select the **Create a virtual disk when this wizard closes** check box, and then click **Close**. 
10. In the **Select the storage pool** window, ensure that **StoragePool1** entry is selected and click **OK**. This will launch the New Virtual Disk Wizard.
11.   On the **Before you begin** page, click **Next**.
12.   On the **Select the storage pool** page, ensure that **StoragePool1** is selected, and then click **Next**.
13.   On the **Specify the virtual disk name** page, type **VirtualDisk1** in the **Name** text box, and then click **Next**.
14.   On the **Specify enclosure resiliency** page, click **Next**.
15.   On the **Select the storage layout** page, click **Simple** and then click **Next**.
16.   On the **Specify the provisioning type** page, ensure that **Fixed** is selected, and then click **Next**.
17.   On the **Specify the size of the virtual disk** page, click **Maximum size**, and then click **Next**.
18.   On the **Confirm selections** page, click **Create**.
19.   On the **View results** page, ensure that the **Create a volume when this wizard closes** check box is selected, and then click **Close**. This will open the New Volume Wizard.
20.   On the **Before you begin** page, click **Next**.
21.   On the **Select the server and disk** page, ensure that **VirtualDisk1** is selected, and then click **Next**.
22.   On the **Specify the size of the volume** page, accept the default (254 GB), and then click **Next**.
23.   On the **Assign to a drive letter or folder** page, in the **Drive letter** drop-down list, click **F** and then click **Next**.
24.   On the **Select file system settings** page, accept the default settings (the NTFS file system with default allocation unit size and the **New volume** label), and then click **Next**.
25.   On the **Confirm selections** page, click **Create**.
26.   On the **Completion** page, click **Close**.
27.   From 10979D03LabVM1, open File Explorer, and then verify that there is a new drive F with 253 GB of available disk space.
28.   Close the Remote Desktop session to 10979D03LabVM1.
29.   Close all open windows on MIA-CL1.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module

1.   From MIA-CL1, start Microsoft Edge, browse to **http://portal.azure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the Azure Portal, in the Hub menu, click **Resource groups**.
3.   On the **Resource groups** blade, click the ellipsis (...) on the right hand side of the **10979D03-LabRG01** entry.
4.   Click **Delete**.
5.   On the **Are you sure you want to delete "10979D03-LabRG01"** blade, in the **TYPE THE RESOURCE GROUP NAME** text box, type **10979D03-LabRG01** and click **Delete**.
6.   Click **Microsoft Azure**.
7.   On dashboard of the Azure portal, right-click the 10979D03LabVM1 tile and click **Unpin from dashboard**.
8.   Close Microsoft Edge.

When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the VMs. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this lab, you should have attached two data disks to the Azure VM from the Azure Portal and created a two-disk volume in an Azure VM that runs Windows Server 2016 by using Storage Spaces.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
