# Lab Answer Key:  Module 6: Cloud storage
# Lab: Configure Azure Storage
  
## Exercise 1: Create an Azure Storage account
  
#### Task 1: Create a storage account in Azure
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, launch Microsoft Internet Explorer and browse to 
        [https://portal.azure.com](https://portal.azure.com)
      .
2.   If prompted to authenticate, sign in by using either the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator Microsoft account from your Microsoft Azure subscription.
3.   In Azure Portal, click  **+New** in the upper left corner.
4.   In the  **New** blade, click **Data + Storage**.
5.   In the  **Data + Storage** blade, click **Storage account**.
6.   In the  **Create storage account** blade, specify the following settings and click **Create**.
  -   Name: Any valid, unique name (between 3 and 24 characters consisting of lowercase letters and digits)

  -   Deployment model:  **Resource** **Manager**

  -   Account kind:  **General purpose**

  -   Performance:  **Standard**

  -   Replication:  **Locally-redundant storage**

  -   Subscription:  **Your subscription**

  -   Resource group:  **Create new**

  -   New resource group name:  **StorageLabRG**

  -   Location: The Azure region closest to your classroom location.

  -   Pin to dashboard: Selected

7.   Wait for the storage account to be provisioned. This will take about a minute. When the deployment completes, the portal will display the storage account with its  **Settings** blade open.


#### Task 2: View the properties of your storage account and copy the access key
  
1.   In Azure Portal, with your storage account open, review the  **Essentials** section, including the location, replication, and performance settings.
2.   Scroll to the right to the  **Settings** blade of your storage account. Click **Access keys**. In the  **Access keys** blade, notice that you have the option of copying the values of storage account name including key1 and key2. You also have the ability to regenerate both keys.
3.   In the  **Access keys** blade, click **Click to copy** next to key1.
4.   If prompted about whether to allow the webpage to access your clipboard, click  **Allow access**. Then, click  **Click to copy** again.
5.   Close the  **Access keys** blade.
6.   On the taskbar, click  **File Explorer**
7.   In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, click  **Documents**.
8.   In the right pane, right-click an empty area, click  **New**, and then click  **Text Document**.
9.   In the file name, replace  **New Text Document** with **storage-key**, and then press Enter.
10.   Double-click  **storage-key.txt**. The file will open in Notepad. 
11.   In Notepad, paste the access key that you copied to clipboard into the file.
12.   Click  **File**, and then click  **Save**. Keep Notepad open, you will need it for the next exercise.
13.   In the  **Settings** blade, click **Configuration**.
14.   In the  **Configuration** blade, notice that you have the option of changing the replication settings. However, you cannot change the performance setting (this can only be assigned when the storage account is created).
15.   Close the  **Settings** blade but leave the storage account pane open.

>  **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you will have created your Azure Storage, examined its properties, and copied its access key to a text file.


## Exercise 2: Create and manage blobs
  
#### Task 1: Create a container
  
1.   In the Azure Portal storage account, in the Services section, click  **Blobs**. 
2.   In the  **Blob service** blade, click **+Container**.
3.   In the  **Newcontainer** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **Create**.

  -   Name:  **labcontainer**

  -   Access type:  **Blob**



#### Task 2: Add data to the container by using Azure Web Storage Explorer
  
1.   Switch to the page of Notepad showing the content of the  **storage-key.txt** file and copy the storage account access key into the clipboard (in case you overwrote it in the meantime).
2.   Open a new Internet Explorer window and browse to  **http://azurestorage.azurewebsites.net/login.aspx**
3.   On the  **Azure Web Storage Explorer** page, in **Account**, type the name that you assigned to your storage account at the beginning of this lab, paste the access key that you copied into the clipboard into the  **Key** box, and then press Enter.
4.   Click  **labcontainer**.
5.   Click  **Browse**.
6.   In the  **Choose File to Upload** window, double-click **Windows**, and then double-click the  **ImmersiveControlPanel** folder, and then double-click the **Images** folder.
7.   Click  **splashscreen.contrast-white_scale-400.png**, and then click  **Open**.
8.   In the  **Azure Web Storage Explorer** page, click **Upload** to upload **splashscreen.contrast-white_scale-400.png**.
9.   In the file list, right-click  **https://** ** _yourstorageaccountname_.blob.core.windows.net/labcontainer/ splashscreen.contrast-white_scale-400.png**, and click  **Open in new window** from the right-click menu.
10.   Verify that you see a gear wheel in the new Internet Explorer window. 
11.   Close all Internet Explorer windows.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module
  
When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have created a blob container and uploaded the data.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  