# Lab Answer Key:  Module 4: Web Apps and cloud services
# Lab: Web Apps and cloud services
  
## Exercise 1: Creating and configuring a WordPress web app
  
#### Task 1: Create a web app
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer, browse to  **http://portal.azure.com**, and, when prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the  **Hub** vertical menu, on the left side of the portal page, click **New**.
3.   On the  **New** blade, in the Search box, type **WordPress**, and then press Enter.
4.   On the  **Everything** blade, in the list of results, click **WordPress** from **WordPress**.
5.   On the  **WordPress** blade, click **Create**.
6.   On the  **WordPress** blade, specify the following settings:
  -   App name: A unique name consisting of letters, digits, and hyphens

  -   Subscription: Your Azure subscription

  -   Resource Group: Ensure that the  **Create new** option is selected, and then type in **AdatumWebRG**.

7.   Click  **App Service plan/Location**.
8.   On the  **App Service plan** blade, click **Create New**.
9.   On the  **App Service plan** blade, in the **App Service plan** text box, type **AdatumLabSP**.
10.   In the  **Location** drop-down list, select the Azure region closest to your classroom location.
11.   Ensure that  **D1 Shared** is listed as the **Pricing tier**, and then click  **OK**.
12.   On the  **WordPress** blade, click **Database**.
13.   In the  **New MySQL Database**, type  **adatumwpdb** in the **Database Name** text box.
14.   Ensure that  **Shared** appears in the **Database Type** drop-down list.
15.   In the  **Location** drop-down list, select the same location that you chose for the App Service plan.
16.   Click  **Pricing Tier**.
17.   On the  **Choose Your Pricing Tier** blade, click **Mercury**, click  **Select**, and then click  **OK**.
18.   Click  **Legal Terms (ClearDB)**.
19.   On the  **Purchase** blade, click **Purchase**.
20.   Select the  **Pin to dashboard** check box, and then click **Create**.
    >  **Note:** Wait until the web app is created, which might take a couple of minutes.

21.   After it is created, the WordPress web app will open automatically in the Azure portal interface.


#### Task 2: Install WordPress
  
1.   On the WordPress web app blade, click the link underneath the  **URL** label open a new tab in Internet Explorer will that will automatically redirect to your new website.
2.   On the WordPress website, in the languages list, click  **English (United States)**, and then click  **Continue**. 
3.   On the Welcome page, complete the  **Information needed** section with the following:

  -   Site Title:  **AdatumMyBlog## _####_ _(_**where  _######_ is a unique number)

  -   Username: The email address of the Microsoft account associated with your Azure subscription

  -   Password:  **Pa$$w0rd**

  -   Select the  **Confirm use of weak password** check box.

  -   Your E-mail: The email address of the Microsoft account associated with your Azure subscription

  -   Leave the  **Search Engine Visibility** with its default setting.


4.   Click  **Install WordPress**. 
5.   Wait for the installation to complete.
>  **Note:** If your connection to the web app times out, refresh the Internet Explorer window.


#### Task 3: Create a blog post
  
1.   In Internet Explorer, on the WordPress web app webpage, click  **Login** and in the **Username or Email** box, type the email address of the Microsoft account associated with your Azure subscription.
2.   In the  **Password** box, type **Pa$$w0rd**.
3.   Select the  **Remember Me** check box, and then click **Log In**.
    >  **Note:** If prompted by Internet Explorer to store the password for the website, click **Not for this site**.

4.   On the  **Dashboard** page, click **Write your first blog post**.
5.   On the  **Add New Post** page, in the text box below **Add New Post**, type  **Welcome to the Adatum Blog**
6.   In the main text box, type  **Welcome to the Adatum blog**.
7.   Click  **Publish**.
8.   Click  **View Post**. Your new post appears. 
9.   Close the Internet Explorer tab displaying the WordPress interface, and then return to the Azure portal tab.
10.   Close Internet Explorer.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created and configured an Azure website to support WordPress blogs. 


## Exercise 2: Creating a cloud service
  
#### Task 1: Create a cloud service
  
1.   From MIA-CL1, start Internet Explorer, browse to  **http://portal.azure.com**, and then, when prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.
2.   In the  **Hub** vertical menu on the left side of the portal page, click **New**.
3.   On the  **New** blade, click **Virtual Machines**.
4.   On the  **Virtual Machines** blade, click **Cloud service**.
5.   On the  **Cloud service (classic)** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **Create**:
  -   DNS name: A unique name of the cloud service consisting of a combination of letters, digits, and hyphens

  -   Subscription: The name of your subscription

  -   Resource group: Ensure that  **Create new** is selected, and then type **LabCSRG** in the text box.

  -   Location: The Azure region closest to your classroom location

  -   Package: Leave with the default setting 

  -   Certificates: Leave with the default setting

  -   Pin to dashboard: Enable the check box.

6.   Wait until the cloud service is created, which should take less than a minute. After the deployment is completed, the Azure portal will automatically open the cloud service blade.


#### Task 2: Deploy a cloud service
  >  **Note:** To proceed with deployment of the cloud service, you first need to create an Azure storage account in the same Azure region as the cloud service.

1.   In the  **Hub** vertical menu on the left side of the portal page, click **New**. 
2.   On the  **New** blade, click **Data + Storage**.
3.   On the  **Data + Storage** blade, click **Storage account**.
4.   In the  **Create storage account**, specify the following settings, and then click  **Create**:
  -   Name: A unique name consisting of a combination of lowercase letters and digits

  -   Deployment model:  **Classic**

  -   Performance:  **Standard**

  -   Replication:  **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**

  -   Subscription: Your Azure subscription

  -   Resource group: Use existing  **LabCSRG**

  -   Location: The same Azure region you chose for the cloud service

  -   Pin to dashboard: Ensure that the check box is not selected.

5.   Wait until the storage account is set up.
6.    **I**n the upper left corner of the portal window, click  **Microsoft Azure**.
7.   Click the tile representing the cloud service that you created earlier.
8.   On the cloud service blade of the newly created cloud service, ensure that  **Production slot** appears in the toolbar, and then click **Upload**.
9.   On the  **Upload a package** blade, click **Storage account**. 
10.   On the  **Choose storage account** blade, click the newly created storage account.
11.   In the  **Deployment label** text box, type **Lab deployment**.
12.   Click the folder icon next to the  **Package** text box.
13.   In the  **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, browse to **E:\Labfiles\Mod04** folder, select the **AdatumAds.cspkg** file, and then click **Open**.
14.   Click the folder icon next to the  **Configuration** text box.
15.   In the  **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, browse to **E:\Labfiles\Mod04** folder, select the **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg** file, and then click **Open**.
16.   Select the  **Deploy even if one or more roles contain a single instance** check box.
17.   Select the  **Start deployment** check box.
18.   Verify that the green line underneath the  **Package** and **Configuration** text boxes extends all the way to the right, indicating that the upload successfully completed, and then click **OK**.
>  **Note:** Wait for the deployment to complete before you proceed with the remainder of this lab. You can monitor the progress of deployment by checking the status column in the **Roles and instances** lens on the cloud service blade in the Azure portal. Wait for the status to change to the Running state.


#### Task 3: Connect to the web app hosted by a cloud service
  
1.   In the Internet Explorer window, in the Azure portal interface, on the blade of the newly deployed cloud service, click the link directly underneath the  **Site URL** label. This will automatically open a new Internet Explorer tab displaying the Adatum Ads webpage.
    >  **Note:** The app is for demonstration purposes and is not completely functional.

2.   Close Internet Explorer.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
When you are finished with the lab, do not revert the virtual machines. Please keep all of the VMs running. The VMs in their current state are required for the next module.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created, deployed, and configured an Azure cloud service.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  